<VOGUE.MZ.NOVEMBER.2017.0079>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3976176 >< -------- Nostalgia -------- >Behind the LensChelseaBoyStraight out of college,Nathan Englander plunged into thegritty, fabulous world of ninetiesNew York fashion photography.BY 21, I’D GIVEN UP ON BECOMING A NOVELIST.It was too impossible, too grand, too unattainablyelbow-patched-Waspy for a cash-strapped, stateschool–educated, suburban Jewish boy. I’d movedon to my backup plan. I’d become a fashion photographerin New York.I understand now that it’s like giving up professionalpoker to fall back on shooting craps. Still,it made sense to me. Photography is a real job.There’s lots of equipment to operate. You press abutton and get results. If you work in a studio, youcan play loud music and be around other people—most of them models. And everyone takes youseriously. Set up a light in Central Park, have anassistant hold a reflector, and the tourists will circle around,taking pictures of you taking pictures, assuming you’re a star.Connections to commercial photographers in New Yorkwere, as you can guess, pretty hard to come by for me. But myolder sister was working in Chelsea back then, and she hada photographer friend named Dan Wilby, with a studio overon Twenty-first Street, right near her office. She introducedme to him. And, nearing the end of college—the future laidout, wide open and terrifying—I threw myself on his mercy.Wilby let me intern for a week, during which he encouragedme, inspired me, and—a nonbinding promise he actually madegood on—told me that maybe, if I kept up, he’d help me findpaying work. The work he eventually found me was with him.I made my way to Wilby’s studio for that first day with mystarter camera slung over my shoulder. It was like headingoff to join an airport ground crew, carrying a set of yourown glowing, homemade wands. It was 1991, and the grittyChelsea I walked through to get there was spiritually post-Stonewall but not yet fully gentrified. There was nary a doublestroller to be seen. The shiny high-rises that have taken overwere still cheap parking lots, and the mom-and-pop storeswere still making rent, all those hyper-specific businesses thatsold only lightbulbs or only ribbons, the Hasidic schmatte salesman with fabric piled floor to pressed-tin ceiling.The studio was in a loft with tons of natural light, its supportcolumns spaced far apart, perfect for shooting an unobstructedwide angle or taking a long-lensed portrait acrossthat cavernous room. My job was to manage the place. This,despite the fact that I had no background as an assistant, letalone studio manager, but for the time I’d spent shadowingWilby. Also not in my favor were my failures of character andgeneral unkempt appearance. I was lazy and undisciplined. Iwas perpetually unshaven, with long hair down my back. Andfor a physical business, I topped out at five feet seven inches,my 28-inch jeans hanging on my hips.Wilby, meanwhile, was successful and seasoned and downrightwise. I can’t now even fathom how adult and establishedhe seemed in memory, as I was 21, and he couldn’t have beenmuch older than 25. I’d tell you that I can’t understand whyhe’d take a chance on me, but I absolutely can. Wilby hada rough-and-tumble background, having grown up on theCanadian side of the border near Buffalo. He was self-taughtand self-made, and his bootstrap, gumption-filled, against-all-oddsrise clearly fostered his generosity toward me.The deal we’d struck was like a medieval apprenticeship.The terms were simple. I’d look after the studio for a flat 200 bucks a week (enough to move out ofmy parents’ house and rent a tiny, decrepit room in the city).Any day there was a shoot and I assisted, I’d get another 50 inmy pocket. The understanding was that he’d work me plentyhard, while teaching me everything I’d need to know to oneday go out on my own.As for the camera I’d embarrassingly shown up with, heunsnapped the leather case and tossed it away. His point wasthat a camera is a tool. Like a hammer. It’s meant to be used.And use them we did. Wilby taught me howto shoot in different formats, to set lights, todevelop and print. I especially loved wranglingthose massive old view cameras, withtheir big black bellows, the ones you hideunder a hood to focus.He taught me little tricks, like propping a bit of silver cardbehind a glass. The difference between the picture with it andwithout it was astounding. Nothingwill make you want to drink whateverwe were helping hawk more than thatextra splash of light. I loved descendingon fun spaces—showing up at thePeninsula hotel in midtown with all ourgear, and digging in, taping down ourcables, creating a purposeful ruckus.And I really loved learning how to runa business. If the job was worth it, nomatter what was asked, we said, “<No problem!><INTRA>” 
<You need an elephant and a marching band by this afternoon?><INTER> 
<We just happen to have a marching band right here><INTER>. <See you then!><INTER>My long hair ended up being an asset.(Google Cher in Moonstruck if youwant a period reference.) When a setwas ready and the lights almost right,we’d tweak them with me standing infor the models, hamming it up in endlessridiculous scenarios. Somewhere there’sa framed picture of me flat on my stomachin front of a painted backdrop of clouds and sky, fakewhite doves hanging from wires, as I pretend to fly, Superman-style,an industrial fan blowing back my lustrous curls.I quickly figured out the hierarchy of shoot days. Takingpictures of food was the most pleasant. The stylists were niceand there’d be extra to eat. Also, you had to capture the imagequickly, while everything was shiny and crisp. Lettuce did notdo so well under hot lights.Next came shooting fashion. There’d be leftover catering—since the models mostly had cigarettes for lunch. There’d bemusic, and an infectious kind of energy. And those days alsohad to end. Models begin to wilt at some point as well.The most relentless were the high-paying, high-end productshoots. Some overpriced trinket balanced on a sweep.A diamond ring does not get tired. A diamond ring doesnot wither under the glare. And the art director who had thediamond-ring account would always be happy to eat our food, and drink our coffee, while reading a magazine in a corner.She’d relax, flipping through her Filofax, long after thesun had set. She’d make personal calls on our dime, waitingfor us to bring yet another Polaroid over so she could shakeher head and ask for another adjustment. She’d tell us, <More twinkle><INTRA>, 
<more sparkle><INTRA>, <more clarity><INTRA>, <it’s not right><INTRA>.On weekends, Wilby and I would meet at the diner aroundthe corner, next to the Limelight—a church turned drugfueleddance club—and eat our pancakes beside club kids stillout from the night before. Then we’d go up to the studio orspend the day in the darkroom. I still have the prints we madetogether. Wilby drilled me until my blacks were truly black,and my whites, white-white, until I understood what it meantto care deeply and work hard.Wilby got me to the point where other photographerswould hire me out. The more I assisted other people, the moreI saw the kinds of sacrifices they made, photographers livingin their studios because they’d burned through their moneyor their marriages, because they hadno boundary between work and life, nolimits on what they’d give. I began tounderstand what true dedication meant,what it was to be all-consumed.That’s when my head went out of thegame. In the middle of a loud, fun fashionshoot, the room would go silent. I’dfind everyone staring at me as I turnedback from gazing out the window,oblivious to the fact that the camerahad run out of film. I may have beensimilarly distracted when the equipmentI was supposed to be loading was stolenoff a city street. The photographerwhose lights got pinched is the one whouttered—a kind of blessing—what Imost needed to hear. “I hope you’re agood writer, because you’re the worstassistant I’ve ever had.”I went off then and put all that energyback into writing—my first love.Wilby, who kept a studio in Chelsea fordecades, is still a friend and is off shooting surfers in NorthSumatra as I write this. He happens to own a bar called theHollow Nickel, not far from my Brooklyn apartment. That’swhere I—four books and one play later—will meet him tohand this piece over, and reminisce.When harking back to those grinding, chaotic workdaystogether, I think more about the moments after we’d gottenthe image, after we’d sent the client home, broken down the set,and locked up all the cameras in a mammoth safe. We’d drinkbeers, or maybe poke our heads into Tramps, the live-musicvenue on the first floor. We’d head out into the night, ontowhat were then Chelsea’s quiet streets.In the dark, one could see the pop and flare of all the lightbanks and umbrellas projecting out from the other studiowindows, our compatriots still at work. All those power packsdraining out, in great bursts of fireworks. Bright flashes, rollingup and down every block, like waves of shooting stars.