<MAGZ.VOGP.JUNE.2017.0042>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3976171>< ----------------------- TALKING FASHION ------- >Keep the FAITH<How did the amorphous— and anonymous—fashion collective Faith Connexion become the toast of Paris?><INTER>Lynn Yaeger finds out.Everyone but Thomas Monethas gone to Tahiti or the Caribbeanor some other sunnyclime. It is the day after theFaith Connexion fall 2017show in Paris, and the restof the design collective responsiblefor putting vast bejeweled cardigans,minuscule punk-lace frocks, and Easterchick–yellow faux-fur coats on the runwayhave flown the coop for parts unknown.Which is why the bearded Monet, whois leaving for Bali next week, is the solerepresentative available to describe this dynamic,street-infused line. But he makes itclear he is speaking for the entire gang—ayoung, multinational crew who specializein such arcane tasks as deconstructingtailored pieces and pilingfroufrou upon once-simple knitwear.We are seated at a small table nextto the incredibly busy showroom,where buyers are clamoring forbrocade tuxedo coats, leather drainpipetrousers, and sweatshirts withsleeves reading that London or Paris or Los Angeles “<is my hometown><INTRA>.”Monet himself is a walking billboard for the company’ssensibility. Clad in a repurposed vintage pajama top, abeat-up Perfecto, and his trademark self-customized jeans,he stands in contrast to the opulence of the surroundings.Faith Connexion’s atelier is currently based in the elegantHôtel de Pourtalès, in view of the Madeleine. (It is a locationthat has gained notoriety as the site of the harrowing KimKardashian robbery.)“We are doing something together,” Monet says. “We arebringing energies together!” Not just energies but actualpersonnel: Faith Connexion heartily rejects the model ofmost high-end brands, which employ a single star designer,in favor of a loosely organized collective—a conceit thatmight be described, to paraphrase that hoary fashion iconKarl Marx, as “from each according to his—or her—ability.”In this case, the ability refers to the lightning skill atwhich a tagger signs a pair of jeans or an embellisher createsa giant, glittery Byzantine cross.The invisible hand pulling at least some of the literalstrings at Faith Connexion is Christophe Decarnin, formerlythe designer for Balmain, and the guy responsible for therevolutionary reinvention of that house in 2006. After fivewhirlwind years of feathered minidresses, ersatz-militaryovercoats, and a vast array of artfully wrecked denim, Decarninleft Balmain in 2011. Though the collective is reluctantto discuss his exact role, he remains a backstage presence atFaith Connexion, a ghost in the machine, hovering overthe line’s distinctive urban-couture sensibility. It is an aestheticthat fully embraces the notion of gender-nonspecificclothing and that flaunts a fierce commitmentto artisanal detail, even if this means not Lesageembroideries but T-shirts hand-painted withslogans like protect earth. The company’s owner, the loquacious AlexandreAllard, says he thinks the idea of a singledesigner is not just passé but also slightly depressing.“I always had a problem with the idea thatthere would be only one amazing designer—Ithink this is a concept that is going to disappear!”he declares. “We need to give a chance to morecreative people.” Allard likens Decarnin to acomposer allowing people in the Faith Connexion“orchestra” to create their own masterpieces.This orchestra will soon be playing in NewYork, when a flagship in SoHo opens this summer.Of course, it won’t be a conventional boutique:A juice machine from Jean-Georges ison order; neighborhood seamstresses may berecruited to create individualized embroideredflourishes; a rotating cast of artists will be on handto decorate your jeans or your tee while you wait.“This is a new magic!” Allard says. And inthese fraught times, 
<when the earth seems to be shifting under our feet, when all of our assumptions are suddenly up in the air, who doesn’t want a magical one-of-a-kind fringed jacket, joyously tagged and glittering with crazy paste jewels, to at least give the illusion of keeping you happy and safe?><SENT>