<MAGZ.VOGP.JULY.2017.0049>< https://archive.vogue.com/>< ----- letter from the editor ---- >Due CAREI DO FEEL LIKE OUR OPPORTUNITY, AS WELL AS OUR obligation, is bigger than it was before,” Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood, recently told writer Jonathan Van Meter, before going on to say, “We’re not just an important reproductive–health care provider—we’re a movement.” With those few words, Richards proves just how remarkable she is. Even in the most difficult times, she can find reasons to be positive and deliver a rallying call to the greater community. And this particular moment is undoubtedly deeply testing for Planned Parenthood, given that it has not only become a target for many on the right since last year’s election, but also been attacked via that modern-day malaise of fake news. Jonathan trailed Richards from Las Vegas to New York, and in “On the Front Lines” (page 84) he brilliantly captures her tireless, courageous devotion to protecting and continuing the important and empowering work that Planned Parenthood does on behalf of millions of American women every year. While I fully appreciate that abortion can be a divisive issue to some in this country, the often-forgotten simple truth of this organization’s existence is that it does crucial work on all matters of reproductive health, and it needs to be allowed to continue to do that work, unhindered and unchallenged. When one remembers that Cecile is the daughter of the late Texas governor Ann Richards, it’s easy to see where she gets her drive from, not to mention her ability to communicate her life’s work in a personable and unpretentious manner. Several of my Vogue colleagues and I can attest to that; when she came in to see us while we were planning this story, she kept us rapt with her direct and meticulously expressed views. Where mother and daughter diverge is on the matter of fashion; both have been featured in this magazine before, but getting dressed for their sittings—Cecile with photographer Annie Leibovitz—was more pleasure than chore to Ann, who loved clothes. That said, the fashion world is in thrall to Cecile, having honored her, Gloria Steinem, and Janelle Monáe with a Board of Directors’ Tribute at the recent CFDA Awards. <And why not?><INTER> Each is the very definition of substance and style. Fashion, we’ve always believed at Vogue, can be about both; it’s long been a hallmark of an industry that takes its social responsibility seriously. In 1990, not long after I started editing the magazine, many of us came together to launch the charity 7th on Sale, to help those living with HIV and AIDS. Thankfully there’s now reason to be optimistic about their long-term prospects, but that particular battle still needs to be fought and won. Which leads me to our latest initiative for our 125th anniversary, which will benefit God’s Love We Deliver and Born Free. Features Director Eve MacSweeney and Contributing Editor Dodie Kazanjian asked eleven exceptional contemporary artists to riff on the notion of beauty in art for a series of summer tote bags and T-shirts, while Market Director Virginia Smith asked Marni to produce them. A huge thank-you to everyone who made this idea a reality—and, we hope, what will be a better reality at that.