<MAGZ.VOGP.JANUARY.2017.0037><https://archive.vogue.com/>< ---------------- FASHION ----------- > RISE & SHYSpring’s new wardrobe is light in spirit, high onimpact, and radiating with optimism and good cheer.Photographed by Mario Testino.COLOR ME RADKendall Jenner goeswheels-up in thehigh-flying electriclooks of the seasonalongside musiciansTyler, the Creator(OPPOSITE PAGE, FARRIGHT), and Travis“Taco” Bennett(CENTER RIGHT).Jenner wears aProenza Schoulercutout turtleneck($1,750), wrapskirt, earrings, andsandals; ProenzaSchouler, NYC.Golf Wang faux-furcoat. Tyler andBennett wear GolfWang throughout.Skateboarder RyderMcLaughlin (NEARRIGHT) wears anIllegal CivilizationT-shirt. VideographerMikey Alfred (FARRIGHT) wears anIllegal Civilizationsweater. Details,see In This Issue.Fashion Editor:Tonne Goodman.READY TO ROLLEvery pursuit—from skateboarding to sidewalk-stomping—requires the proper footwear. Keep graphic content in check with brown-and-white speed racer–style stilettos. Stella McCartney top ($925), pants ($765), and heels. Top at net-a-porter.com. Pants at nordstrom.com. Na-Kel Smith (RIGHT, MIDAIR) Wears Fucking Awesome.BREAKING THE BAR CODE<Say hello to a brash new take on the stripe><SENT>: vertical columns of texture-rich fabrics,which bring dimension and playfulness to a conventionally cut top and skirt. Versace top($1,725), skirt ($1,895), and earring; select Versace boutiques. Details, see In This Issue.PRIMARY SOURCESCrayola-colored hues are a sure way to grab eyes. Kickthings up a notch with a few of them. Prada jacket ($4,110),skirt ($1,390), and belt; select Prada boutiques.PEEK PERFORMANCEBecause everybody interprets our culture’s much-ballyhooed buzzword transparencyin different ways: Show off your skivvies in a <lacy-meets-racy><INTRA> minidress. Dior dress,bra ($750), briefs ($930), earring, bag, and tall sneakers. Details, see In This Issue.SPIRIT ANIMALSDouble down inhead-to-toe sequinsand spots for alook that’s ready toroar—and entirelyon point. Dolce &Gabbana dress; selectDolce & Gabbanaboutiques. Hermèsearring. Ippolitachoker. Details,see In This Issue.BLUE NOTES“DayGlo” and “delicate lace” aren’t normally uttered in the same breath, much less worn as part of thesame look—but we’re craving this Maison Margiela ruched bra top ($1,590), jacket ($1,950), skirt, andbelt that put the pow! in power lunch. Bra top, jacket, and skirt at select Maison Margiela boutiques.LIFE OF THE PARTYWhen wildcat prints and dashing-dog embroidery bump up against each other, high-octanefun is usually around the corner—or right in front of you. Marc Jacobs bomber jacket($2,800), dress ($3,800), and shoes; select Marc Jacobs stores. Details, see In This Issue.CITY SLICKERTake a walk on the sunny side of the street in a citrine-colored slip dress with fiery-redaccents. Ralph Lauren Collection dress; select Ralph Lauren stores. Calvin Klein Underweartank top, $40; calvinklein.com. Versace choker. Tod’s bag. Gucci over-the-knee heels.LEAPS AND BOUNDSClean lines in a rich, radiant palette provide contrast and clarity amid the city’sown vibrant color story. Givenchy by Riccardo Tisci dress ($2,395), striped dress($1,495), socks, and shoes. Dresses at Givenchy, NYC. Details, see In This Issue.ELECTRICAVENUEVests with swag,sneakers withbite, and high-slitdresses with shinelead the way.Emporio Armanileather top andbeaded dress;select EmporioArmani boutiques.Off-White c/oVirgil Abloh bag.Hermès sneakers.In this story:hair, Christiaan;makeup, ErinParsons. MenswearEditor: MichaelPhilouze. Details,see In This Issue.