<MAGZ.VOGP.AUGUST.2017.0057>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< ------ Letter from the editor ----- >Defining MomentWe’re now reaching a watershedon many things that haveremained unchanged and unchallengedfor years—a sure indication that while eventsaround us can sometimes make it seem otherwise, we’re actuallymoving in the direction of progress. It’s especially true of gender, and how so many express and represent that tothe world today. This August’s cover stars, Gigi Hadid andher boyfriend, Zayn Malik (“No Limits,” page 106), areample proof of that. Zayn might talk about how he and Gigishop each other’s closets—a funny, lighthearted quip thatnods to their intimacy and comfort with each other—yet italso speaks to how fluid gender has become, especially andparticularly among the younger generation: How they seethemselves is all that really matters when it comes to definingtheir identities—just take a look at how Zayn, Gigi, and herbrother, Anwar, choose to dress.These days men are as likely, if not more so, to dress upand look gloriously eye-catching and exuberant, with beading,embroideries, jeweling, and all sorts of dazzlingly flash colors in evidence. In the last couple ofmonths, I’ve witnessed the guys outshiningthe girls at two major events—RogerFederer in cobra-motif black tie from Gucciat the Met gala this past May, and youngBritish actor Tom Sturridge in a scarlet suitat June’s Tony Awards. It’s percolating uppartly from the street but also from designerslike Alessandro Michele at Gucci or JonathanAnderson, whose own line, J.W. Anderson, and his workfor Loewe have boldly and brilliantly questioned the genderingof clothes, as well as a slew of other values fashion hasheld dear for years. Hamish Bowles—himself no strangerto turning up the volume style-wise—tracked Jonathan forseveral weeks (“Mix Master,” page 128)—and the resultingstory captures perfectly why this young Northern Irishmanis emerging as a real star.Lastly, one story this issue where the definition of one’sgender is a crucial matter: Rebecca Johnson meets transgenderchildren and their parents in “The Kids Are Alright”(page 118). Their stories are hugely moving and need to beheard—especially, sadly, given the deep-rooted oppositionand, too often, aggression that these children face as theystrive to be who they really are. If we can celebrate them, andtheir families, then so much the better. 