<MAGZ.VOGP.JUNE.2017.0039>< https://archive.vogue.com/>< -------- NOSTALGIA ------- >Her BrilliantCAREERHer mother’s job as a curator atthe Metropolitan Museum of Artgave Lucy Ives a glimpse intoa mysterious, adult world.I RECALL, AS A GIRL OF EIGHT OR NINE,discovering a photograph of my mother taken a fewyears before I was born. In the image, my mother standsin a white room. She is laughing as I had never seen herlaugh in life, completely taken by elation. Surroundingher are large-format photographs, presumably waitingto be hung on the walls. Some are still wrapped in paper,but two—showing beautiful women—are visible.One of the women is also laughing, almost as muchas my mother. I later learned that this long-haired,gently disheveled, smoking and ring-wearing figurewas the singer Janis Joplin—though for now she was justan anonymous subject who reminded me a little of myself.When I brought the picture to my mom, she told me that thephotographs were by a man named Richard Avedon. In 1978Avedon, a.k.a.“Dick,” had a retrospective at the MetropolitanMuseum of Art, where my mother worked as a curator.This was a standard mother-daughter conversation. Therewere many unusual objects in our Upper East Side apartment,and I was a wily sleuth. I was even beginning to believe—knowing nothing of the cost of child care—that my mother’sreason for sometimes bringing me with her to her office afterschool was that she wanted my assistance. We traveled, hand inhand, from the neighborhood’s upper reaches to Fifth Avenueand the Met’s imposing neoclassical façade. As we ascendedthe steps together, I believed that the building belonged to us.Only we knew about the unfinished blocks at the tops of thegrand columns—meant to become figures personifying thefour great periods of art, from Ancient to Modern, but nevercarved. This was the power of the museum: It could hide aflaw in plain sight and look magnificent while doing so.My mother and I proudly entered, making our way to mymother’s department. She was a specialist in European drawingsand prints, and her office was accessible via a secret doorin the wall of one of the galleries, which she opened using akey, often in full sight of gawking tourists. We’d pass through astudy room, into the haven of my mother’s private work space.The smell was of ancient papers, leather, inks, and resins.I did homework or looked through my mother’s collectionof antique doorknobs, keys, and keyhole covers. She liked to purchase these odds and ends at European flea markets. I hadno idea what they meant to her.Later, museum closed and workday done, we exited thedepartmental warren and descended through the empty,darkened building. We passed shadowy busts and portraits,obscure arms and armor, sacred objects visible only in outline.These walks, sometimes up or down staircases inaccessibleto the public, would reappear in my dreams. Sometimes itwould be impossible to find my way out of the museum; or awork of art might come, disconcertingly and messily, to life.In reality, we always reached an exit without incident. In onesubterranean storage hall, passing a giant two-dimensionalreproduction of a blue hippopotamus sculpture from ancientEgypt nicknamed “William” by the staff, we’d even salute. Mymother’s heels clicked reassuringly. This was her place.These are my most vivid childhood memories. Of course,there were privileges: an early viewing of the immense Christmastree along with the intricate, miniature crèche, put outevery year without fail in the medieval hall; my mother’s abilityto give the occasional tour to my grade-school class, anevent that filled me with pride. However, it was the incidentalthings I cherished: eating lunch in the staff cafeteria, lookingthrough my mother’s suitcase after she’d come home from abusiness trip. These moments impressed upon me the dignityand solace of work. The institution encompassed my mother;it seemed to support her at every turn.Dinner conversation with my father revealed a differentside of the job: other people. There was the macho curatorwho always had to get his way, flaunting the economic superiority of his specialty and mocking mymother’s lowly prints and illustrated books. There were alsoregular updates on Brooke Astor, the late heiress, with whommy mother lunched from time to time—and here the tone ofthe report shifted. Mrs. Astor was extraordinary; the chauvinistwas forgotten amid reflections about Mrs. Astor’s palatialapartment, the pleasantness of her conversation. Sometimescelebrities appeared, requesting tours. There was the week ofBrad Pitt. Despite repeated entreaties, all my mother wouldsay was that he seemed “attentive.”I knew from the Avedon installation picture that my mother’slife at the museum had been different before my time,maybe more surprising. It was, after all, her first big job. She’dfled a difficult family situation in San Diego and taken amaster’s in art history at Columbia. Here she’d met my father,who was studying law and had previously workedconstruction on the side. They’d made a go of it.My mother changed her first name as well as herlast in marriage, and my father left behind Yonkersand his working-class roots. My mother had thephysical gifts that permit self-transformation: Shewas slender, with sweet, symmetrical features andbeguiling brown eyes. She made powerful friends,including the philanthropist Lincoln Kir stein,and rose quickly through the ranks at the Met,becoming the director of her department. Shemet Andy Warhol. “But what was Andy like?” I demanded toknow. I was a teenager now, and the 1990s hadbrought renewed hunger for Warhol’s commodifiedirony. Even Kurt Cobain seemed to be modelinghimself on the Factory magus.“Weird,” my mother said. “Quiet.”By this time, my mother and I disagreedon many topics. Not least among thesewas my appearance. All my clothingwas deemed too tight. My eye makeupwas eternally inappropriate, what mymother termed “your Cleopatra eyes,” a mild digI tried to take as a compliment, given the Met’s spectacularEgyptian collection. Meanwhile, I was athletic, verging onAmazonian, or so I felt. By age twelve, I was already passingmy mother in height. I played three sports. My face came frommy father. His Assyrian-Iranian and Polish features—darkhair, broad face, pronounced nose—had won out over Mom’sGerman-WASP blend. In spite of my apparently British lastname—in fact an Ellis Island corruption of my paternalgrandfather’s Ivas—everyone assumed I was of Eastern Europeandescent and Jewish. Among friends’ families I usuallysmoothed over any confusion by preemptively proclaimingthat I had no religious education at all, which was true.Only later did I understand how fully one can reinventoneself in New York City, particularly with a good partner inmetamorphosis, as it were. In my mother’s case, I was neverentirely sure if that partner was my father or the museumitself, which during certain periods seemed to consume herwhole each morning, spitting her out again, mysteriously transformed, at nightfall. I continued to grow away fromher, at first physically, then creatively. I became obsessed withdrawing, a pursuit my mother discouraged vehemently whena high school teacher suggested I apply to art school. I wouldgo often to the museum on Friday afternoons to work on mysketches. I no longer bothered to venture up to my mother’soffice; I came alone and sat alone and left without her.After I was accepted at Harvard, the polar opposite of artschool, my mother began taking me with her on research trips,perhaps because I was a good sounding board or perhaps tokeep an eye on me. We went to London, Paris, Australia, andFrench Polynesia. Our last trip, an inquiry into Paul Gauguin’sfinal days on the remote island of Hiva Oa, was challenging. Iwas tailed by wild dogs when I foolishly attempted to visit theartist’s grave alone, and my mother came close to drowning.This episode took place on a volcanic beach, where we werewalking. I don’t know why my mother decided to swim, butswim she did, and was caught in a rip current. Our host, MonsieurGaby, and I stood on the shore, watching with mountinghorror. “Swim to the side!” Gaby yelled, probably in French.Eventually all was well, but in that petrifying moment I sawclearly and for the first time the distance between my motherand me. It wasn’t just the fast-moving ocean.Later, after my mother had staggered back to land, we allstood staring at one another. I felt as if I was meeting herfor the first time. Gaby, meanwhile, seemed ready to depart.We piled into his SUV. As the vehicle bounded up the lushmountainside, I reflected on what an odd couple we must appear:the brooding daughter wandering off into an overgrowncemetery; the sociable mother nearly swept out to sea. 
<Or perhaps we were not so much “odd” as inverses><SENT>, I thought,mirror images.But what a strange and difficult mirror it was.