< MAGZ.VOGP.MARCH.2016.0077 but 0020>< https://archive.vogue.com/>< ----- talking fashion ---- >Take a BowMidnight-hued ribbons, knottedsweetly around the neck, tie togetheran evening ensembleSocial ResponsibilityWomanof the WorldA senior adviser at U.N. Women,Elizabeth Nyamayaro is enlisting you—and Eddie Redmayne—in herinspiring campaign for gender equality.Elizabeth Nyamayaro, the architect ofHeForShe—a global campaign that invitesmen to work toward gender equality—grewup in a small Zimbabwean village. In a recentTEDWomen talk, for which she worea crisp peplum top and matching skirt, shedescribed being eight and admiring a certain “girl in theblue uniform”—a U.N. aid worker. Soon after, Nyamayaroattended school for the first time and, finding herself years behind,resolved to do “better and better and better,” ending upwith a master’s from the LSE and a job with the Joint UnitedNations Programme on HIV/AIDS in Geneva.As if Nyamayaro’s own story isn’t exceptional enough,she cites Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, executive director ofU.N. Women and a former anti-apartheid activist, as a trueinspiration. “She understood the importance of forgivenessand of inclusion,” says Nyamayaro, who signed on withU.N. Women in 2013, eager to widen the conversation. “Wewere optimistic that there were more than a few good menout there,” she says. The “<we><INTRA>” here includes Emma Watson,a goodwill ambassador for the organization who was determinedto be much more than a mere figurehead.Along with an almost instantly famous speech from Watsonin which she admitted her nervousness but spoke of a responsibility (“<If not me, who?><SENT> <If not now, when?><SENT>”), theHeForShe rollout included a dynamic Web site that mappedmobilization in support of the cause. Though Nordic menearned the highest marks, within a week at least one manfrom every country on the planet had participated, includingBarack Obama and Eddie Redmayne.Now in the midst of launching a new initiative less focusedon gendered support, Nyamayaro is quick to stress that “thisisn’t about men saving the world—it’s about solidarity.” AHeForShe arts week, with proceeds from the Public Theaterand others benefiting the campaign, will coincide withInternational Women’s Day on March 8, while Nyamayarocontinues to track measurable change within universities,corporations, and governments. “Right away I knew she wasa person who was going to get things done,” says Watson.(When the two aren’t traveling for the cause, they chat onWhatsApp and have weekly calls about strategy.)All this world improvement leaves little time for relaxation,but Nyamayaro calls her husband her “rock” and visits Zimbabwe—to which she hopes to return someday in a leadershiprole—as often as possible. She also loves to read—TheArt of War is her favorite book, and she last finished I AmMalala. Lucky for her, Watson has just kicked of a feministbook club.—KATE GUADAGNINO