< MAGZ.VOGP.MARCH.2016.0019>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3908962>< ------------ Nostalgia ----------- >Two’s CompanyA new HBO documentary looks at the glamorous ups and devastatingdowns of Gloria Vanderbilt and Anderson Cooper. By Rebecca Johnson.Photographed by Norman Jean Roy.Anderson Cooper has been worryingabout his mom’s stuff for most ofhis life. “She never throws anythingaway,” he explains. A few feet away,Gloria Vanderbilt smiles adoringlyat her son. “It’s true,” she agrees. “Istill have the love letter from my firstboyfriend when I was thirteen.”For decades, those boxes of pictures, letters, gewgaws, andmementos languished in storage lockers around New York,accruing fees, threatening to become lost to the vagaries oftime, and basically driving Cooper crazy. “I kept thinkingit would end up like that room in the last scene of CitizenKane,” he says. Eventually he had everything shipped to histwo basements, one in New York City and the other in hiscountry house in Connecticut.Anderson Cooper is a busy man. Weeknights, he anchors hisown newscast on CNN. Other times, he’s on the road, aroundthe world, gathering material for stories. But on the rare weekendof, he can be found in one of those basements, sorting through his mother’s stuff, a determined archaeologist on anemotional dig. It’s a job that requires patience and a sense ofhumor. “You open a box,” he says, “and there’s a chandelier;then you open another box, and there’s a box of cornflakesfrom 1953.” Over time, the objects began to pull on Cooper’simagination, drawing him deeper into the uniquely fascinatingworld of his mother’s past, an era that began as the greatrobber-baron fortunes were petering out, the Jazz Age wasdimming, and the golden age of Hollywood was taking light.You don’t get to Cooper’s position in life without havinga pretty good sense of what will play on the screen. TheVanderbilt fortune, the tragic early death of Gloria’s alcoholicfather, the glamorous and peripatetic life of her gorgeous bisexualmother, the custody case in which her aunt (GertrudeVanderbilt Whitney of Whitney Museum fame) won custodyof a ten-year-old Gloria, followed by a string of romanceswith some of the century’s most illustrious men—HowardHughes, author Roald Dahl, Marlon Brando (to name afew)—the trailblazing career as tastemaker for the masses,and the heartbreaking death of a beloved son: It was all great material. As Cooper says, “My motherhas been famous for longer than anyone else alive.”Never underestimate the power of a well-connected friend.One day Cooper mentioned the idea of a documentary toSheila Nevins, who then mentioned it to documentary filmmakerLiz Garbus, who was riding a wave of critical successfor her Academy Award–nominated film on the life of NinaSimone. “At first I thought, <Gloria Vanderbilt?><SENT>” Garbussays. “<Hasn’t that story been told?><SENT>” But when she startedlooking deeper, she saw that, in fact, there were many chaptersin Vanderbilt’s saga. For one generation of viewers, shemight be the “<poor little rich girl><INTRA>” of the 1935 headlines; foranother, she was the first woman to make a fortune brandingdesigner jeans; for yet another, she’s the mother of thatopenly gay, totally hot anchor on CNN. Moreover, Vanderbiltis nothing if not visual. Since she was a child, she hasbeen relentlessly photographed by others and documentedher own life in a rich and steady stream of paintings, manyof which are highly autobiographical. <And all those boxesthat kept Cooper up at night with worries?><INTER> “A treasure chestfor a documentarian,” Garbus says.Still, there was a question about whether Vanderbilt wouldreally reveal anything. To test the waters, Garbus went tovisit her one day in her Beekman Place apartment. “She wasvery polite and welcoming,” Garbus says. “Then she askedAnderson to change a lightbulb in the dining room, and that’swhen I knew the project would work. You could see it was avery natural relationship between an aging parent and child.”As the filming for Nothing Left Unsaid began, Cooper suggestedhe be the one to interview his mother, instead of thefilmmaker. Garbus hesitated but (wisely) relented. On-screen,Cooper is wry but loving as he probes the sometimes wackydecisions that determined his mother’s life, like the time shedecided to marry the 63-year-old Leopold Stokowski, theclassical conductor of Fantasia fame, after knowing him fora week. (The couple went on to have two children together,one of whom cut of all contact with Vanderbilt for 40 years,another of the many hurts in her life.)It was “instant,” she says breathily on-screen. “We weremarried three weeks later.”“Really?” Anderson asks, brow furrowed. “I didn’t knowthat. How old were you?”“Twenty.”“Wow. Did any of your friends think it was weird?”“Well . . . to have this genius . . . which he was, think I wasextraordinary and wonderful, it just gave me a big lift,” sheanswers.<As if that explains everything!><INTER> In a way, it kind of does.Vanderbilt’s own mother was eighteen when she gave birthto Gloria. Soon after, she took off for a months-long voyagewith husband Reginald Claypoole Vanderbilt, leaving theirinfant child to be raised by a beloved Irish nanny—Dodo, reassuringly solid silhouette who appears again and againin Vanderbilt’s paintings. Within two years, Reginald haddied, but the young Mrs. Vanderbilt’s parenting skills neverimproved much. Her main interests seem to have been parties,clothes, and her own beauty. “She was a narcissist,” Coopersays. “She was only eighteen,” Vanderbilt tries to defend her,though disappointment with her mother is clearly the woundthat never healed.The young Gloria was essentially left to raise herself,shaped by the chimerical notions of love and romanceshe found in the movies. The woman who emerged fromthat chrysalis is like no other person in the world. She wasintensely driven in every art she attempted—acting in severalTV series, painting every day, writing romance novels and afew memoirs. But she was also perpetually girlish, a seeker ofbeauty and novelty who was rarely satisfied for long. Havingbeen born into a bubble of fame, that is where she continuedto live, expertly maneuvering its levers when it suited herpurpose. When she wanted to leave Stokowski, the conductorwhose reclusive ways had come to seem stultifying, shewaited until a more charismatic (and more famous) lovercame along. <What husband could possibly compete with Frank Sinatra?><SENT> Her fourth husband, the actor turned writerWyatt Cooper (Anderson’s father), once wrote that she was“as exotic as a unicorn . . . as subtle as an Egyptian templecat . . . as tentative as a doe in the forest.” He was in love, 
<but you get the idea><SENT>. Both then and now, there’s a reason peoplecontinue to be fascinated by Gloria Vanderbilt. Growing up, Cooper sometimes found himselfwishing for a mother who was a little lessfascinating. She didn’t cook; she didn’t knowthe quotidian details of his teenage life. Therewas a period when she drank too much. (Notfor long; she didn’t like what it did to her face.) She traveled alot for her work, and photographers were constantly showingup for magazine shoots; imagine Judy Garland mixed withAudrey Hepburn. She was always saying how she wished she’dhad girls—“That used to drive me crazy,” he says. It becameeasy for Cooper to define himself as her other. She was aVanderbilt, he was a Cooper. When he was about six yearsold, his father pointed out the statue of his ancestor CorneliusVanderbilt in front of Grand Central station. After that, theyoung boy thought all grandparents turned to stone when theydied. Much better, to his young mind, were the jovial Cooperson his father’s side, a warm, close-knit Mississippi family offarmers who were instinctively at ease with one another.On the surface, Vanderbilt and son still seem like opposites—she’s ultra feminine, he’s very masculine. She lovespattern and excess—every inch of her apartment glitterswith something—his aesthetic is monastic. On the day I interviewedthem, she was cuddled up in a furry robe festoonedwith cabbage roses; he was gym-toned sleek in a black T-shirt,black jeans, and closely cropped silver hair. “I wanted to beAmish when I was a kid,” he says. “You just wear black andwhite—<what could be better?><SENT> One less thing to worry about.”As much as Vanderbilt loves beautiful things, she is indifferentto the pragmatic aspects of life, the need to plan and save andstrategize. She made a lot more money on her licensing deals than she ever inherited from her family,but she also lost much of it when her psychiatrist and lawyercolluded in a massive fraud that left her nearly broke. Givenall the drama in her life, Cooper, the war correspondent,can sometimes seem a little boring in comparison. “Yes!” heagrees enthusiastically. “I am boring. I’m fine with boring.”After his father unexpectedly died during open-heartsurgery at the age of 50, Cooper got ajob as a child model. “It’s such a cheesy thingto do,” he says. “But I wanted to take care ofmyself. When you lose a parent at ten yearsold, the world seems like a much scarier place. It makes completesense to me that I took survival courses when I was ateenager and started going to war zones as a reporter. I didn’tever want to be taken advantage of, and I wanted to be able totake care of those around me.” Including his mother. WhenVanderbilt spent five years in an affair with a married man,it was her son who repeatedly told her the truth: He’s nevergoing to leave his wife for you. And he never did.“I should have married some really rich tycoon,” Vanderbiltsays, sighing, when asked why she never remarried.“I would have been all for that,” Cooper says.“You never expressed that!”“I expressed that all the time!” he counters. “You werenever interested in those men because they watched sports.”“Never satisfied,” she sighs.“Never satisfied,” he agrees.While mother and son prepared for the documentary, Cooperthought it would be a good idea for the two of them tocommunicate more regularly, so he had a friend teach her touse email, thus beginning what turned out to be an epic backand forth between the generations (and became the basisfor the book The Rainbow Comes and Goes: A Mother andSon Talk About Life, Love, and Loss, which will be published by Harper in early April). “Thoseemails changed our relationship,bringing us closer than either ofus thought possible,” Cooper says.“It’s the kind of conversation that Ithink many parents and grown children would like to have,but we tend to put it off, holding on to old issues and oldways of interacting. I didn’t want there to be anything leftunsaid between us.”As the words began to flow (and flow and flow), Cooperbegan to realize how little he actually knew about hismother’s past. <Why didn’t she talk to her mother for seventeen years?><SENT> 
<Why did she abandon Dodo, the nanny who had been like a surrogate mother, to die alone, a ward of Catholic Charities?><SENT> Despite all the sadness and regrets, he saw thatsomething in her was able to survive, and even to flourish,just as he had. It turns out they are both driven, restless, anddetermined. Instead of wishing his mother had been moreconventional, he saw how her iconoclasm had shaped himin ways that have served him well. She thought nothing oftaking him with her to parties and nightclubs like Studio54. Her famous friends—Charlie Chaplin, Isak Dinesen,Truman Capote—were as unremarkable as the wallpaperfor him, all good training for journalism, a job that requiresconfidence in whatever room you enter.Garbus’s film brilliantly mixes Vanderbilt’s own surprisinglygood art (an exhibition at 1stdibs Gallery at 200 Lex is scheduledto coincide with its release) with vintage newsreels andhomemade videos shot by Cooper himself, but the momentof truth comes at the end, when the two of them go to visit thegraves of Wyatt and Carter Cooper, Anderson’s older brother,who committed suicide at 23. In that naked moment of vulnerability,as mother and son hold hands at the snowy grave,you also see another truth about the wildly successful GloriaVanderbilt and her celebrated son Anderson Cooper—theynever would have made it without each other.  