< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2016.0159>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- Nostalgia -- >The OtherManWhen she stumbledupon her mother’s secret past,EMILY BINGHAMbecame fixatedon a handsome Italian.When I was growing up in Kentuckyin the early 1970s, my primary-schoolbrain couldn’t quite wrapitself around my immediate family.My father was the editor andpublisher of The Courier-Journaland The Louisville Times, continuinga dynastic tradition reaching back to his grandfather,and one that my generation was expected to carry forward. Mymother, a Washington, D.C., native so striking that she earnedpocket money as a model in her youth, was making her civicmark by saving historic Louisville architecture from the wreckingball. They were both very busy.I had a sister three years younger, and then there were my brothers,ten and nine years older than me. It was the height of thecounterculture, and they were playing in rock bands and experimentingwith drugs. By the time I was six or seven, they were inconstant circulation—leaving for a succession of boarding schoolsor coming home for vacations punctuated by recriminations overinadequate grades on one side and threats to drop out on the other.I was six when my father took the reins at the newspapers andwe left our white clapboard house in a pleasant neighborhoodof Louisville for the Bingham-family seat, a Georgian manoroverlooking the Ohio River. The night we moved in, a bat camedown the chimney in the bedroom that my sister and I shared andslapped against the white plaster walls. Our sixteen-year-old brother, responding to our shrieks, swept it out the window.Cooperation of this sort dwindled over the followingyears. Stifled conflict between my parents and mybrothers would devolve into screaming fights, slammeddoors, and silences. On my way into a family dinner onenight, I witnessed my usually eminently self-controlledfather grab my brother, shouting and accusing him ofthings I couldn’t understand. I led upstairs to a bathroomand hid in one of the closets, trying to make sense of it all.Strangers looking at my fair-haired father and his towheadedlittle girls might have wondered how they were related to theseolive-skinned teenagers. They didn’t much more resemble mymother, either, a honey blonde with blue eyes. I was about eightwhen I somehow learned the truth: My brothers were not myfather’s sons. It took a long time to piece the story together. Whilestudying art and architectural history in Florence during her junioryear of college, my mother became involved with an Italian man.She discovered she was pregnant. They married and moved toMassachusetts, where a connection offered my mother’s husband ajob. He shirked work and, according to my mother, wasn’t faithful.My mother divorced him, compounding the initial breach in socialmores. She and the little boys moved in with her parents, and hereturned to Italy—for good.My father was making documentaries for NBC when he andmy mother met. JFK’s assassination cast a shadow over theirNovember 1963 wedding. Everyone moved to Louisville, and my father, in a noble but perhaps ill-advisedgesture, legally adopted the boys, which is how my sister and Icame to share a home with our parents, a live-in maid, and a pairof half-Italian boys named Bingham.No calls or letters came to them from abroad. No father appearedto claim them, if only for lunch. Nobody talked to meabout him. I was a bookworm, well behaved but wound tightemotionally. While my brothers increasingly criticized the “<system><INTRA>”that included the family business, I absorbed the reality that—according to my father, and to my sophisticated and often exactinggrandparents—they were not Binghams like me.This felt cruel. They deserved better, and I feared losing them forgood. Hoping to bring everyone together, I imagined their fatheras the missing link. I would whisper his name to myself like a spell.He had loved my mother, after all, and he must love his children.Maybe he could dispel the tension that had coagulated around us.Every year around Christmas, my brothers’ Italian grandmothersent an extravagant golden cardboard box of Perugina chocolates.My mother wrote “Nonna” a thank-you letter updating her on theboys, but for weeks the box sat almost untouched on the sideboardin our dining room.It was my idea to go to boarding school. On weekends at theCoop bookstore in Harvard Square I lingered over a poster of MarcelloMastroianni from La Dolce Vita. I hadn’t yet seen his films, buthe became a stand-in (and an erotically charged one) for a man whowas at once walled of from my family yet ever-present within it.One summer in Louisville I made a breakthrough. No one wasaround that steamy day—my mother and father were out, and mybrothers had long since decamped for California, where they werepursuing careers as musicians. Passing a glass-fronted bookcasein the broad upstairs hall that ran the width of our house, I leanedover and tried its door. When it didn’t budge, I found a barretteand popped the lock.Italian-vocabulary lists, schoolbooks and papers, and a passportwith a photograph of my mother at almost my age fell out. Shewore bright-red lipstick and looked like Grace Kelly in To Catcha Thief. I opened a photo album. Yellowed glue was all that wasleft in some spots, and a few ripped pictures told me someone hadbeen edited out. Then I found him.In one snapshot he stood in a long overcoat among leafless trees,his dark hair falling partly across his forehead. The only other pictureshowed him in three-quarter profile, holding my eldest brotheron one shoulder. My brothers’ father wasn’t just handsome, he waseven handsomer than Mastroianni.Irving Penn took the portrait of the actor on page 108; it ran inVogue in 1963, the year my parents married. His lips and bedroomeyes telegraph sensuality; his gorgeous mane and aquiline nose suggestcareless nobility, and the almost beckoning gesture of his fingers,holding the cigarette while touching his lower lip, conveys somethingforeign and a little decadent. My attraction to him was anothersmall betrayal. Glamorous and disillusioned, irresistible but perhapsunreliable, Mastroianni offered a counterpoint to the world I knew.My freshman year of college, I signed up for an Italian class,and the next summer I self-consciously followed my mother’sfootsteps to a foreign-study program in Florence. My mother toldme before I left that she wouldn’t be giving me any contacts for her first husband or his family. Nonetheless, I imagined tracking him down and scoured the telephone directory in my pensione for thename, finding several matches. My hand shook as I dialed the firstnumber. Before anyone answered I hung up the receiver, feeling likea fool. Eventually a beguiling Neapolitan who worked the bar byBrunelleschi’s Ospedale degli Innocenti helped distract me from mymother’s story. Seven years later,however, I was again in Italyduring a break in my graduatestudies in North Carolina. Along-term relationship therewas unraveling, and I had justcut my hair shockingly short.My eldest brother, now in his30s, was in Italy, too, visitinghis father as part of a long-overduerapprochement.I rode alone by train toLucca, where his father lived.My brother met me at the stationand took me first to meethis grandmother in her shutteredapartment overlookingthe town’s oval piazza. I wasmoved by the warmth and sincerityof her embrace; she toldme she loved my mother. Nextstop was the villa on the city’soutskirts where my brothers’ father lived. He wore a tailored light-graywool suit over a red cashmere sweater and matching socks. Hisshoes were polished and his silver, still-thick hair was impeccablycombed, exactly like Mastroianni’s.We sat outdoors on canvas reclining chairs, and he complimentedmy Italian. Later he took me through rooms where sheets coveredthe furniture and then to an anteroom with a tall window. He pagedthrough photo albums of his dolce vita. One girlfriend after anotherhung on his arm, on beaches, on ski slopes, on city streets, and inpalazzos. He wanted me to see his allure.He had waited more than two decades before marrying again,and his wife was some 20 years his junior. She cooked dinner,which we ate in the kitchen while their two small boys wove amongthe chair legs. He carped about the immigrants overrunning thecountry, and the way he questioned my brother didn’t sound verysupportive to me. <What kind of house did he have?><SENT> <Was he making money with his music?><SENT> <How much?><SENT>His ego was staggering; how fitting that his name, Massimo,translated literally, means “the most.” At nearly 70, he was the mostphysically attractive man I had ever seen. Of course my mother hadfallen for him; I would have too.On the train back to my friends in Rome, I felt tired and realizedhow naive my expectations had been. Massimo wouldn’t be healingthe wounds that for nearly 20 years I’d dreamed he could. Itdidn’t matter how beautiful he was. By year’s end I had dived intoacademic work and found the man I would marry. We toasted theNew Year with moonshine in the Great Smoky Mountains, extinguishing,at last, my obsession with the Italian man. 