< MAGZ.VOGP.APRIL.2016.0156>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- Beauty --- >HealthRipple EffectKate Christensen takes the plunge with a radical new treatment for cellulite.Last summer, while vacationing in the WhiteMountains of New Hampshire, I emergedfrom the cool, pristine lake to stretch outon the dock. As I lay back, dripping wet, onthe sun-heated boards, I caught a glimpse ofthe slight ruling of the skin on my thighsthat, along with many other signs of aging,intensified with every passing year. I glanced over at my sunbathingsummer neighbor, a tanned and toned competitiveathlete around my age. She rose from the dock, sleekly lean,almost all muscle in her racing-back maillot. As she doveinto the water, I saw that she, too,had orange-peel skin. I had beenwatching her with detached envy,but now I felt perversely relieved.According to Jeremy Green,M.D., a Miami dermatologist,more than 90 percent of womenhave cellulite. It’s caused by genetics,hormones, and skin structure.“Cellulite can start any time afterpuberty,” Amy Wechsler, M.D., aNew York dermatologist, tells me.“I see it often in 20-year-olds.”Cellulite is frequently mistaken fora lumpy, puckered expression ofbody fat. But the dimples are actuallycaused by fibrous strands ofconnective tissue compressing thesubcutaneous layer of fat, whichtends to concentrate in the thighsand buttocks of even the mostslender women. Green likens theeffect to a tufted sofa.Since my own indentations firstsurfaced, around fifteen yearsago, I’ve resigned myself to theirpermanence. Treatments such as caffeine creams, scrubs,wraps, myofascial massages, and vitamin injections can providea temporary improvement in appearance, but none ofthem confers any long-term solution. Losing weight reducesthe fat but, alas, not the dimples, which are caused by thefishnet-stocking-like structure of the connective tissue itself.Staying in shape doesn’t prevent or banish cellulite; my conditionhad persisted, despite my twice-weekly Pilates practiceand conscientiously nutritious diet.Every spring, I admire the gazelles I see stepping out oftaxis in their abbreviated skirts and dresses, their skin “asluminous as the finest of seashells,” in the words of the greatsensualist Anaïs Nin. I recall with nostalgic appreciationthe days I’d stride the city streets in summertime, taking backward glances for granted. At 53, I’ve long retired myshort, frothy skirts, even on the hottest days. In a boutique lastsummer, I was tempted by a Lisa Marie Fernandez one-piecebathing suit with a zip front, cut daringly high on the thighs,but reluctantly bought a less revealing one.Acceptance recently gave way to hope, however, when Iheard about a new technique called Cellina, FDA-approvedsince 2014. The first of its kind, using a tiny blade to permanentlysever the bands of connective tissue, it promisedto address the underlying cause of cellulite, not simply itsappearance. In a clinical study, 55 patients underwent asingle treatment. Two years later,independent physician evaluatorsdeclared improvement in the appearanceof cellulite in 98 percentof those treated.“It’s the first thing that’sworked,” says Daniel R. Foitl,M.D., a Manhattan dermatologist.The downside, he adds, is thatthe procedure, which costs around$5,000, doesn’t remove any fat.“I sometimes tell patients theyneed liposuction or Cool Sculpting,”he says. Wechsler soundsanother note of caution: “Cellinais painful and causes swellingand bruising,” she says. “It is nota ‘lunchtime’ treatment.”To learn more, I make an appointmentwith dermatologistMichael S. Kaminer, M.D., whowas one of a team of three doctorswho developed the procedure;he regularly performs it athis Boston area practice.In a well-lit consultation room,Kaminer examines my skin. “You have between ten and 20dimples per side,” he tells me, “and very few ripples. That makesyou a perfect candidate.” I smile, oddly pleased; I’ve never imaginedI’d find myself happy to have the “right” kind of cellulite.As Kaminer explains, “With a lot of dimples, over 50 per sidemaybe, there is a point beyond which it really just isn’t worthit. It doesn’t fix skin laxity. And it doesn’t work on longerhorizontal lines, only shorter ripples and discrete dimples.”Cellina originated as a less-invasive iteration of a commontreatment for pitted acne scars. Kaminer describes itselegant simplicity: On numbed skin, an iPhone-size suctioncup lifts and stretches each dimple, and then a tiny blade performsa subcision to release the connective bands. The bandsfall apart, and the skin floats up again, smooth. “Within a month, you’ll look better. In six months,you’ll really see it, and after a year, you should be very, veryhappy,” the doctor tells me. Best of all, I would likely have todo it only once. “Most women seem to have all the dimplesthey are going to get by their mid-40s,” Kaminer says. Althoughthe technology is still too young for claims that theresults are permanent, dimple-causing bandsdo not grow back once they are destroyed.After my initial appointment, I call one ofKaminer’s former patients, Paola Pacella, a46-year-old personal trainer who had Cellinaperformed ifve years ago as part of the clinicaltrial that resulted in the FDA clearance.“No matter how lean I got, even down to 13percent body fat,” she tells me, “I still hadcellulite.” She tried topical lotions, scrubs,professional wraps. Nothing worked. And then she heardabout the new treatment. “Five years out, my cellulite isstill gone,” she says.Two weeks later, I lie facedown on a table in the surgeryroom while Kaminer’s team of technicians—four funny,chatty women—sticks me a few times per side with anestheticneedles. Within ten minutes, I am completely numb, and Kaminer warns me, “The noise might be the worst partof this whole thing.”The machine did indeed whine and gurgle as Kaminerbegan placing the suction cup over my dimples, one by one,and releasing the villainous fibers. I am no fan of needles,yet I felt nothing but anticipatory happiness. I wouldn’tfeel sore until two days later. Back at home,I followed Kaminer’s instructions and woreSpanx, took showers instead of baths, anddidn’t engage in any strenuous exercise forfour days. As the doctor had promised, therewere plum-colored bruises, but they fadedas fast as the pinpricks healed. By day five, Ifelt nothing.A week after the procedure came the unveiling:I stood in daylight in front of my boyfriendafter a shower. He pronounced my derriere beautiful, smooth.In the days that followed, I found myself running my handover my newly released flesh, which felt satiny and taut, as ifit had been flat-ironed.In a few months, it will be time to put on a bathing suitagain. I look forward to buying a new one, with a zip front,cut high on the thighs.