< MAGZ.VOGP.MARCH.2016.0023>< https://archive.vogue.com/>< ------------- view --------------- >Getting PERSONAL TWO VERY DIFFERENT LABELS TELL TWO UNIQUE STORIES.WARMIn skimming through the looks of Warm, the newcasualwear collection from design director TracyFeith—yes, the same Tracy Feith whose effervescentprint dresses are now collector’s items since the 2010shuttering of his namesake label—and creative directorWinnie Beattie, owner of the Nolita boutique alsocalled Warm, you can almost feel the sun on your neck and the salt on your tongue. It’s a boardwalkeffect born of Beattie and Feith’slong-shared (and on-trend) love of surf-and-skate culture.“We jokingly wanted to call the lineBetty,” says Beattie, “because for methat’s the ultimate compliment. To be,like, a surf Betty. Our girl isn’t really aglamazon—she’s natural, earthy, and alittle bit imperfect.” Feith, on the phonefrom Beachwood Canyon in L.A.,agrees. “There needs to be some dirt inthere,” he says.The result—which will be sold at theWarm boutique, as well as in placeslike Barneys New York and Capitol, inNorth Carolina—is a pleasingly undonearray of lit-away frocks, kaleidoscopiccaftans, denim overalls, and retro-huedmaxi dresses, including a standout yellowy-white option (Beattie’s favorite—she calls it a “groovy housecoat”) withbig guayabera pockets and sprays ofwildflowers embroidered up its sides.These are clothes that can be worn onthe beach, in the car returning to the cityfrom the beach, and then to dinner totalk about next weekend’s trip (naturally,back to the beach). Underscoring thepoint, Beattie adds that she styled thelookbook with fifteen-year-old checkerboardVans slip-ons that she’s wornon surf trips with Feith to Costa Rica’sSanta Teresa, “where you wear yourbathing suit as a bra.”Fans of Feith’s original upbeat easewon’t be left wanting, either—the girlwho bought his clothes back then isthe Warm womannow. “My aesthetichas evolved—Imight even makean all-black collection,”he says with a laugh, “but the client is the same.” Thesynchronicity of it all is almost enough to make one feel thatthere’s something etched in the sun-kissed skies over Feithand Beattie’s shared adventures. “People have been tellingme I should do a line for a while,” Beattie says. “But there’sonly one person I could think of to get it off the ground, andthat’s Trace.”—NICK REMSEN