< MAGZ.VOGP.APRIL.2016.0153>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< ---- HISTORY OF HAIR --- >OVER THE COURSE OF THE LAST CENTURY, HAIR’S MOST MEMORABLEMOMENTS HAVE HAD THEIR ROOTS IN VOGUE.20’s As social and politicalchange swept the nation, amodern woman emergedin the twenties. The NineteenthAmendment inspired the embrace ofnewfound freedoms, and liberated suffragetteslopped of the long hair that defined their Victoriansensibilities. With closely cropped Voguestyle stars like Coco Chanel and Louise Brooksleading the charge, short styles like THE BOBcame into focus.30’s The Jazz Age gave way to theGreat Depression, and MARCELWAVES relaxed into carefullyrolled curls as Americans sought to escape realitythrough radio, swing music, and the silver screen.Hairstyles remained sleek at the crown andoutwardly voluminous, making PIN CURLSswept into tailored updos a coiffing fixture. Theworld would go to war at the end of the decade,but Vogue encouraged continued dedication totime-honored beauty rituals. “Women don’tstop being women even in war-time,” declaredthe Vogue’s-Eye View section in November 1939.40’s With World War II chieflydefining the early fortiesand Rosie the Riveterinspiring women to jointhe workforce, hairstyles remained tailored bututilitarian. VICTORY ROLLS offered a practicalsolution to manicured manual labor. Come1946, Vogue would declare that it was all about“hair worn faceward,” adding an appealing detailto shoulder-sweeping hair, which became thelength of the moment.50’s Enter the era of the ULTRAFEMI_NINE COIF. The rise of on-screenstarlets like Audrey Hepburn andElizabeth Taylor upped the attainable glamourquotient, with DEFINED SETS finding their foilin more youthful PONYTAILS—both of whichprovided the perfect canvas for omnipresentheadgear. Vogue enforced hats and hair accessoriesas the must-have accoutrements of the day,while updated styling products hit the market.60’s Social and politicalchange manifestedthemselvesin the hairstyles ofthe sixties. SLEEKAND STRAIGHTbecame the sought-after look for many, withmod crops inspired by Twiggy and Barbra Streisandgaining traction across the country. Womenalso began experimenting with exaggeratedheight and volume for the first time in decades,as styles like the BEEHIVE and the backcombedHAIR FLIP came into fashion. Amid the dawnof the celebrity hairstylist, new techniques andavant-garde shapes pushed the boundaries ofstyling, depicted by Franco Rubartelli’s 1967 and1968 images of Veruschka in the pages of Vogue.70’s The rebellious nature of the seventies inspireda new way of thinking. Women began lettingtheir hair down, quite literally. Cue theembrace of natural textures and center-parted, impossiblelengths—or FREE_MOVING HAIR, as Vogue called it in 1977,when wispier SHAG styles also abounded. The era’s beautyicons, like Jane Birkin, Lauren Hutton, and Farrah Fawcett,gave women license to pull back from high-maintenance,professionally coifed looks and embrace their unique hairqualities instead. Even the decade’s popular rock stars optedfor hair with softness and simplicity.80’s In the eighties, the brows were big andthe hair was bigger, fostering suchstyles as FEATHERED BANGS andNEW_WAVE PERMS. A fresh crop ofsupermodels also introduced a newgeneration to hair-hero worship. When Brooke Shieldsgraced the cover of Vogue in 1980, her steely gaze set forwardfrom a barrage of HIGH_VOLUME HAIR inspiredendless imitation. And for women who disliked the decade’s full silhouette, there was the PUNK PIXIE popularized bymusical muses like Madonna and Annie Lennox.90’s Linda Evangelista picked up the torch forthe gender-bending TOMBOY CROP inthe nineties, when an obsession with androgynyemerged alongside more unkempt grunge styles.Linda wasn’t the only one-name wonder with influence.The decade belonged to the dream team made famous byVogue: Cindy, Naomi, Claudia, Christy, and Kate, whosechameleon-like prowess reigned alongside cultural phenomenalike Jennifer Aniston. Named after her characteron Friends, Aniston’s layered look THE RACHEL was a hitat salons nationwide.00’s TV and film sirens continued to dictatetrends into the aughts as actresses like SandraBullock, Sarah Jessica Parker, GwynethPaltrow, and Reese Witherspoon won Vogue covers andbeauty obsessives’ hearts. Their collective preference foreffortlessly undone yet perfectly polished strands inspiredthe SLEEK BLOWOUT, which enjoyed decade-long favor.New &NextToday, women aremore individualisticthan ever, and hairhas become a majorform of self-expression.With social-mediastars drivingbeauty trends, thepages of Vogue are increasinglyfilled withPERSONALIZEDCUTS and NATURALTEXTURE, which offer women a way to take ownership of their hair destiny.There is also a growing focus on flexibility with length as women golonger or shorter, quicker. What’s new is now in the hands of the people.What’s now continues to be in Vogue. 