< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0196>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- VLIFE--- >BeautyPower LinesB E AU T YWith suggested links to pigmentationand premature aging, is the blue lightfrom our devices the new UV—orjust a ray of hype? asks Sarah Brown.SOON AFTER THE FIRST iPhone came out a decadeago, fashion executive Gigi Mortimer found herselfsitting next to an ophthalmologist at a dinner partyin Sun Valley, Idaho. “I told him, ‘When you find outthe light coming off these screens is bad for us, giveme a call,’ ” she remembers. Mortimer was alarmed bystudies that had started trickling out, suggesting theharmful effects the light from a smart device could haveon vision, sleep—and even skin. (A 2008 report fromscientists in Japan said that blue rays delay skin-barrierrecovery in mice.) Concerned about the potential healthrisk for herself and her children, Mortimer, who gother start designing accessories, including eyeglasses, atRalph Lauren and is now the director of design inspirationat Tory Burch, set out to create a tempered-glassmobile-phone filter that partially blocks blue light.(Called EyeJust, the company launched last year.)Research is ongoing, and dermatologists are debatingwhether we’re truly at risk. But cosmetics companies arebanking on the idea that consumers are as concernedabout blue light damage to their skin as they are aboutits effects on their eyes (potential eyestrain) and sleep (a2014 study links it to disrupted circadian rhythms, whichin turn may be associated with developing depressionand diabetes). Brands big and small are starting to introducesunscreens that will block it out, in the same wayour SPFs protect us from UVA and UVB rays today.Also known as high-energy visible light (HEV), bluelight is all around us—in sunlight as well as emittedby the LEDs that illuminate the smartphones, tablets,and computers that the average American is exposedto for six to ten hours every day. So prevalent is thislight source that HEV is now being referred to as “digitalpollution” by skin-care marketers. Its effects arenot all bad. Just as small doses of UV are beneficial tohealth—stimulating our bodies to create vitamin D andmood-boosting serotonin—normal exposure to HEVcan aid cognitive function and increase alertness; in controlled amounts, it’s also regularly used therapeuticallyto treat acne, and via photodynamic therapy (PDT)to kill precancerous cells.“It’s overexposure that’s the problem,” says LorettaCiraldo, M.D., a Miami-based dermatologist who wasamong the first to study the effects of UVA radiationon skin at Harvard’s photobiology lab in the seventies.Recently, she has noticed new dark-spot patternson patients, “weird things I’d never seen before: pigmentchanges on the sides of the face and in front ofthe ears, where you hold a phone, instead of the centerof the face, where the sun is hitting you.” She cites a2014 clinical study she’d read that investigated how anHEV-sparked inflammatory cascade could make skinmore susceptible to hyperpigmentation. As she sees it,environmental damage due to sunlight is only the beginning: It’s time to pay attentionto what is happening to our skin indoors as aresult of chronic screen time.According to Barbara Sturm, M.D., theDusseldorf, Germany–based orthopedic surgeonturned skin-care specialist who shuttlesbetween London, New York, and Los Angelesto see patients, blue light has not been shown toinduce cancer-causing DNA mutations (unlikeUV radiation). But HEV penetrates skin deeperthan UVA and UVB combined, she says. And ithits where hyaluronic acid, elastin, and collagenreside—paving the way for aging skin.A French study published in January andfunded by grants from Lancôme and L’Oréal showed that,like eyes, the skin cells responsible for hyperpigmentationhave receptors for HEV rays. “In other words, we can saythat our melanocytes are seeing blue light,” explains coauthorThierry Passeron, M.D. That said, he stresses, the source tobe wary of is the sun, which is made of 25 to 30 percent HEVrays. Prolonged exposure (90 minutes or more) can stimulatehyperpigmentation, typically seen in darker skin tones, andworsen melasma; regular sunscreen doesn’t cut it. <As for digital light?><INTER> “The risk is probably overblown,” particularly inhealthy individuals, he says, adding that a fuller understandingof the repetitive low-dose effect is still to come.<So will moisturizers, serums, and sunscreens now be formulated with HEV-fighting agents, much in the way UVA protectors became the norm in our sunscreens in the early aughts?><INTER> 
<Will “broad spectrum” soon include HEV?><INTER>Ciraldo has infused the Anti-Aging Repair Moisturizer inher new line, Dr. Loretta, with a vitamin E–like ingredient called Chromabright, which protects against HEV beforeit can penetrate the skin. Coola’s Sun Silk Drops, out thisspring, can be mixed into moisturizer or foundation tocreate a barely perceptible, broader-spectrum shield. AndSturm’s new Anti-Pollution Drops, formulated with fermentedmarine actives to achieve a similarly impervious,invisible film, deflect HEV while trapping free radicals andother airborne pollutants. Lancôme introduced its ownversion, which is available in Japan.Lessening risk might also come down to moderation—atall order in our ever-wired world. Dimming the displaylighting on laptops is a start. (Apple recently admitted thatmost of its monitors are turned to settings that are more onthe blue spectrum than sunlight.) Mortimer takes comfort inher mobile-phone screens, which filter out 37 percent of bluelight; larger versions for tablets and computers are to come. “Ilook at it like SPF,” she says. “It’s just part of the equation.”But soon, too, might be an HEV-fighting sunscreen. 