< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0191>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- VLIFE--- >BeautySuper WomanFrom indie starlet to action hero,Zazie Beetz is changingthe big-screen beauty narrative.TWO YEARS AGO, WHILE DONALD GLOVER was at afriend’s house watching audition tapes for the characterVan—the actor and director’s <on-again><INTRA>, <off-again><INTRA> love interest—in FX’s Atlanta, his friend’s girlfriend walked by thetelevision and stopped, transfixed. It wasn’t the first timeGlover had witnessed a visceral reaction to Zazie Beetz. Shehas, he says, “an amazing ability to lure people to her with anatural honesty.”And then there’s her hair.Worn in an Afro that frames her heart-shaped face and caramelskin, her natural texture was a tipping point for Glover,who cast Beetz in the role. “Zazie’s hair isn’t straightened, andI wanted her to relate to Van as much as possible,” he says ofthe feisty character, whose development has benefited fromBeetz’s ability to instill elements of herself in the part. “Plus,”he continues, “you don’t see it enough.”“So many women come up to me, like, ‘<Oh, my God, that’s me!><SENT>’ ” Beetz says, citing the resonance of capturing on camerasomething as simple as working her strands into Bantu knotsor braids, and tucking them under a head wrap—a detanglingand stretching ritual that she often performs before bed on theshow, as she does for 45 minutes every night in her own life.“That’s what has been wonderfulabout Atlanta,” Beetz says. “It’s allowedme to celebrate my identity.”This wasn’t always a possibilityfor the 26-year-old, who remembersthe first time she wore her hairnatural. She was in ninth grade atLaGuardia high school of performing arts in Manhattan, andher Afro attracted unexpected attention. “My teachers asked ifit was a wig, and strangers on the street came up and touchedmy hair,” the German-born actor says. That interest emboldenedBeetz—until she started meeting with casting directors:“ ‘<All right, love your hair, but try to keep it more CBS><SENT>,’ ” sherecalls of a race-neutralizing aesthetic that prevailed in theindustry even just a few years ago. But that’s changing, thanksin part to showrunners such as Glover and actors like Beetzwho are helping to upend traditional big-screen beauty norms.Last year, when director David Leitch cast Beetz as theMarvel antihero Domino, who plays opposite Ryan Reynoldsin Deadpool 2 (out this month), he too insisted that her hairgo untouched. “I was shocked,” says Beetz, who would have readily adopted the stick-straight, choppy black strands inthe original comic. “For David and Ryan, my hair being boldand strong helps Domino come across as bold and strong.”Not everything about playing this mercenary mutant wasas easy for Beetz, who spent four rigorous months with acrew of trainers and stunt doubles. “I don’t gym,” she sayswith a laugh, detailing the daily hand-to-hand combat exercises(“Loved it”), followed by two hours of weights (“Hatedit”). But the experience of pushing herself, sometimes totears, has only plunged Beetz deeper into cultivating her ownapproach to beauty and health. She’s been experimentingwith makeup, streaking lipstick across her eyelids or drawingblue liquid liner down her lower lip in a nod to African tribaltechniques (“and the ErykahBadu music video for ‘Love ofMy Life’!”). She has also taken towhipping up her own skin salves,a meditative activity as she staresdown the reality of becoming action-hero famous.“I throw everything in a bowl and blend it until it’s fluffyand wonderful,” Beetz says of a batch of oils (jojoba, coconut,olive), shea butter, vitamin E, and vanilla extract that sherecently prepared during a restless night. “My boyfriend saysI should sell it,” she jokes of what could be a lucrative sideproject, were it not for roles that are coming fast and furious.Next up, she’ll star opposite Grammy Award–winningmusician Chance the Rapper in Slice, a campy horror flick forthe Stranger Things generation. For that, she’ll also wear anAfro, another opportunity for representation that is not loston the woman who once struggled to accept her own texture.“It’s incredibly freeing to be able to show people that this is aviable way to wear your hair—on-screen and in the world,”she says. “Doors are opening.”—KATE BRANCH