< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0197>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- VLIFE--- >FitnessShock Jock Taking a page from the physicaltherapyplaybook, the boutiquefitness scene goes electric. INSIDE A DIMLY LIT ROOM on NewYork’s Upper East Side, I am standingin starfish pose as an enthusiastic trainertightens the straps of what seems to be anall-black flak jacket around my thighs, torso,and arms. The gear is straight out of aSpecial Ops video game, but the gadgets arereal: sixteen wireless electrodes designed toadminister painless but palpable zaps as Iwork out. So this is what the buzz is about.Futuristic as it sounds, the electromyostimulation(EMS) offered at Manhattan’s newly opened (and aptlynamed) Shock Therapy studio has beenused for physical-therapy rehabilitationsince the 1960s. “Its main function is tostimulate weaker muscles to contractduring exercise to improve strength morequickly,” says Michael Fredericson, M.D.,a sports-medicine physiatrist at StanfordUniversity. Fitness pros picked up EMS tosupercharge sessions, which is how ShockTherapy founder Esra Çavuüoùlu discoveredthe craze eight years ago in her native Turkey. “After two months I was in the bestshape of my life,” she says of leveraging themild electric currents to amp up her workouts.Betting that wellness-obsessed Americanswould be converts, too, she adaptedthe technology into a group-fitness conceptthat debuted in Manhattan this winter andwill roll out in other major cities this year.<But can EMS really jump-start a body boost?><SENT> While fans cite research that suggestsbenefits ranging from increasedstrength and mood enhancement to bettersleep, Fredericson has reservations: “Whileit can build muscle,” he admits, “[EMS]is not enough to enhance athletic performance.”That hasn’t stopped Olympianslike Usain Bolt from suiting up. MohamedElzomor, a trainer at Manhattan’s privateCore Club, also uses the technology to getmodel clients, such as Alessandra Ambrosioand Romee Strijd, runway-ready. “I’msuspicious of any magical pill or machine,but after my first eleven-minute workoutI couldn’t move for four days. It’s nota fad,” says Elzomor. “You see results.”Game to try anything that could potentiallycreate more defined biceps in half-hourclips, I cycle through a circuit of curls, lunges,and stationary jogs at a recent six-personclass at Shock Therapy, initially unimpressedby the low-impact reps. And yet the suit’s individuallycalibrated vibrations—sustainedbuzzes, then a rapid flicker—resulted in twosurprisingly sore days that followed, painthat prompted a reunion with the forgottencrest of my glutes.—MARISA MELTZER