< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0194>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< --- VLIFE--- >FashionHold YourOwnHBA X LONGCHAMPHood by Air’s Shayne Oliverand Longchamp get a handle ona cool accessory collaboration.THE MINUTE HE GOT HIS HANDS on a Longchamp LePliage bag, Shayne Oliver knew what he wanted to do. “I realizedthe house’s history, but it was the democratic vibe thatreally got to me,” Oliver says, describing his collaborationwith the brand. Longchamp, the storied Parisian luggagehouse that made its reputation on timeless nylon valises, was founded in 1948; Oliver, whohas described his sensibility as“Ghetto Gothic,” was born in1988. The former is famous forits indispensable satchels; thelatter burst on the scene in 2014with Hood by Air—an exuberant,stunningly well-executed lineof elevated streetwear that captivatedthe fashion crowd (and wasamong the first to offer a trulydiverse runway). If this marriageof street and sophisticationseems unlikely, sometimes it ismagical when opposites attract.As Sophie Delafontaine, thecompany’s artistic director andgranddaughter of its founder,puts it, “We are a very Parisianbrand, and Shayne is a very NewYork designer, but we are linkedby creativity and open-mindedness.After all—it doesn’t makesense to collaborate with someonewho’s just like you!”Oliver is on to something whenhe lauds the brand’s democraticcred—on a sunny afternoon inParis, it can seem that every womanhas either a daunting Hermèsor a friendly Longchamp slungover her chic arm. He says he wasexcited by the brand’s unapologeticpracticality and intriguedby the ways he could flip its classicdesigns. The Le Pliage wasalready on Oliver’s radar—helaughs that the bag-laden finalHBA runway show was influencedby this iconic carrier withthe distinctive rectangle shape and little snap flap.We meet in an achingly hip café near his atelier on theedge of Manhattan’s Chinatown, thousands of miles fromthe Longchamp Paris flagship on the Rue St. Honoré. Oliver,now a grown-up boy genius, is sporting a tweedy overcoat,a small diamond in his left ear. He is at the moment bagless,waiting excitedly for his version of Le Pliage, rendered inpalest baby pink, to arrive. First off, Oliver says, he set aboutdramatically elongating the bag’s handles, which immediatelychanged the proportions. “I was thinking about the differentways it could be worn instead of making it something thatit’s not. The idea was not to be excessive. I didn’t want tooverdesign or make it too fussy and complicated.” He wasimpressed by the brand’s durability and eager to twist its formula—doubling it up so that two LePliage bags could form one bag, or attaching a pouchthat can serve as an airplane pillow, or folding the wholebusiness in half. (The collaboration features nineteenitems, from backpacks to garment bags.) Along withthe house’s traditional black and red, Oliver added thepink hue that has clearly stolen his heart. “I can’t waitto see young boys’ take on it,” he says.In addition to the satchels, Oliver has designed a trioof witty shoes with Longchamp flap details and evenlong straps that convert to handles—so you can walkhome barefoot at 3:00 a.m. and carry them easily. Thereis also a small collection of clothing—logo tees, a bomberjacket—and an extraordinary item that seems like a garmentbag transforms into a coat. To put his own literalstamp on pretty much everything he has created for thehouse, Oliver employed logos, indulging a romance hehas had with words on clothes that dates back to HBA.Now hiatus, dramatically oversize, graces some of the collaborationbags. It has a double meaning—for Oliver, it’s a slyreference to HBA, his beloved baby, currently taking a break(he plans to return it to the catwalks soon). To the rest of theworld, it means a longed-for respite from your workaday life.Other examples are printed with realness, a sentiment thatfor Oliver sums up his aesthetic quest but also harks back tohis earliest days as a designer. “The first logo I ever used wasrealness, from Paris Is Burning,” he says. That 1990 documentary,a celebration of drag-ball culture, taught a generation of young LGBT kids like Oliver about their own history.The logomania doesn’t stop there. When Oliver discoveredthat the words longchamp paris, marque deposée, madein france were sequestered inside the bags, he liberated thephrase to the outside and made it loud and proud. No longera modest declaration, the letters are blown up in an unmistakableblast of energy, shouting, “Sure, I am a Longchamp, butlook at me now—I’ve got Realness!”—LYNN YAEGER 