< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0195>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- VLIFE--- >FashionHold your ownRYKIEL MAI ’68FAS H I O NSonia Rykiel’s got a brand-newbag—with a strong message.“I WANTED TO CELEBRATE Mai ’68, theidea of women having a voice—the energy,the joy, the self-expression, the kids in thestreets fighting to be heard. It’s a bag thathas a story to tell, a bag with a history,” saysJulie de Libran, the artistic director of SoniaRykiel, describing the Pavé Parisien, a smallrectangular satchel meant as an homage tothose heady days of rebellion 50 years ago.If its shape is reminiscent of a pavingstone, that is no accident. “Under thecobblestones, the beach!” was the rallyingcry of the populist Parisian uprising thatsummoned an astonishing power still reverberatinga half-century later. At first itmay seem an odd pairing—the passion ofprotest incarnated in a luxurious accessory—but consider: Just as Sorbonne students were taking to the barricadeswhile workers poured out of factories to join thegeneral strike, a young woman with a wild coronaof red hair who held radical ideas about how hersisters should dress was about to open her namesakeboutique. Sonia Rykiel, whose own sympathies—and creations—were all about freedom andmodernism, boldness and comfort, was forced totemporarily close her shop on virtually the day itopened when the cobblestones began to fly justoutside her St. Germain door.The Pavé Parisien is available in hues that includedeep green (<maybe for an environmental activist?><INTER>), blue (<for those concerned about global warming and the rising oceans?><INTER>), white (forlatter-day suffragists?), or even bright red (for hardlinesocialists?). When you ask de Libran if she isinvoking the LGBT rainbow flag with this dazzlingspectrum—the bag even comes with an optionalmulticolored striped strap—she says sure, but shealso meant to reference broader issues of diversity,and even the dream of a pot of gold at the endof the rainbow. “I didn’t want the bag to be seenas aggressive,” she says, surrounded by mile-highbookcases in the Paris Rykiel boutique, still locatedin the heart of the Left Bank. (In the spirit of itsfounder, the books are free for the asking.)It should be noted that the Pavé Parisien,though compact, provides ample room for yourphone—<how else will you text your friends to know where to meet at the demo?><INTER> And there iseven a small mirror, because you just can’t help it!You want to look good as you march for causesyou care so deeply about. Describing the carrier’sfine leather, de Libran says, “It will age nicely andstay supple.” To which you cannot help but think,Yes, ageless and supple, like the fight for socialjustice itself.—L.Y.