< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0199>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< --- VLIFE--- >HealthMother Knows BestH E A LT HEntrepreneur Katherine Ryder describes the roadblocks she faced in setting upMaven, her successful women’s-health start-up, in a gender-biased industry.IT’S A CHILLY SATURDAY MORNING in March and hereI am, in my thirty-sixth week of pregnancy, sitting in a coffeeshop in Brooklyn, reading through some of Maven’s earliestrejection notes from investors. They date back to 2014, whenObama was still in office, health-care reform was moving in agenerally progressive direction, and digital health funding wassetting records. The polite rebuffs to my start-up proposal,mostly in staccato sentences over email, were peppered withlines like “uncertain of the size of the opportunity in women’shealth” or “need more proof of concept in this new market.”Other rejections didn’t require a note; they happened inspotless venture-capital offices and were mostly one-sidedconversations filled with silence, boredom, and the occasionalcomment that relegated women’s health to birth control andabortions. My daughter kicks. A woman feeds her newbornnearby. There aren’t many female founders who run techcompanies focused in this area, but the ones I’ve met havesimilar stories and have confronted these unexpected odds.I say unexpected because women’s health is not a new market;it’s in fact a huge market, and America is among the mostcapitalist countries on Earth. Women are everywhere, havingbabies, not having babies, going to doctors’ appointments,taking medication—their needs are real, and the spend is real,too: Women make 80 percent of decisions in the $3 trillionhealth-care industry (if we’re keeping score, that’s the size ofthe U.S. retail and manufacturing industries combined).The decision-makers about how companies get funded, bycontrast, are more than 90 percent male. I quickly realizedthat starting and running my business was going to requirean extra dose of idealism, patience, and luck, despite all thebig numbers and the obvious unmet needs. The fact that 43percent of women are dropping out of the workforce afterhaving a child makes it clear that a serious piece of the puzzleis missing. It was these needs that kept me going, and keepme going today. As many of my friends started families, andI started one of my own, I saw and felt firsthand what womenhad to go through just to get care they could trust when theyneeded it—and how the system was failing them. The postpartumnorm is a single checkup focused solely on the baby’shealth; theirs was no longer deemed relevant.I set out to solve the central problem of getting fast access tosupport via specialized women’s- and family-health providersby making that available on demand, on phones, over videoor text. Using the service, a woman can connect to an ob-gynfor a second opinion or for a quick UTI prescription, or getcounseling for postpartum anxiety without having to sit forlong periods in a waiting room for eightminutes of a doctor’s attention. It’s open toindividuals for a reasonable fee (starting at$18 per appointment), as well as throughcorporate benefits programs in fertility,maternity, and <return-to-work><INTRA> care, wherewe can start to effect more systemic change.When we started, an adviser told me thathealth care is such a big, political industrythat you always need to know who’s onyour team and whom you’re taking business from. ForMaven, the white knights of health care tend to be large corporations.Employers spend $1.2 trillion on health benefitsfor more than 155 million workers, which means they generallyhave the same goals we do: keeping people happy andhealthy while reducing costs. To the most competitive companies,losing female employees after childbirth means thatwomen’s health care isn’t just “<birth control and abortions><INTRA>”; more support for new parents is a business-critical issue.Now we work with dozens of large companies, and havehelped more than 125,000 patients get the care they need.The pace of change is uneven. On Monday, my team ispitching our family-benefits platform to one of the country’sbiggest accounting firms. We know the HR director is excitedabout our product, but his team has a lotof questions—some of which remind meof an article I saw in a magazine the otherday with the entirely earnest headline whywomen’s health is important.Many days I still feel like I’m living in oneof the many episodes of Mad Men wherePeggy Olson stands in a room of advertisingexecutives, trying to explain the femaleconsumer. “<This is why you should care if your employee suffers a miscarriage><SENT>.” “<This is how perinatal anxiety affects your ability to retain top female talent><SENT>.” “<This is why women’s health is so diverse and underserved><SENT>.” But I amfeeling confident this morning. With repetition, the message issticking. The point isn’t that many male executives were clueless;it’s that Peggy was, in the end, asked to explain. The pointis that some of them listened, Peggy got promoted, there wassuddenly a female voice at the table—and this led to more. 