< MAGZ.VOGP.May.2018.0190>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< --- Letter from the editor --- >Belief SystemOne of the many conversations we’ve beenhaving at Vogue lately is about who exactlyshould be gracing our covers given the radicallychanged world we now live in. We’vealways taken the position that the womenwe feature should have substance to them,something that has only taken on greater urgency in the lastyear or so. That’s why I’m delighted that Amal Clooney, aforce to be reckoned with in the realms of international lawand human rights, agreed to appear on our May cover. Amalneeds no introduction, of course—yet for someone who’s inthe spotlight so much, she rarely engages with her fame. It’s asif she has negotiated a life for herself that can somehow happilyaccommodate being married to a very famous movie starwithout ever having to sacrifice her passionate attachmentto her long and illustrious career as a barrister, most notablyher defense of the Yazidis and her challenge to the UnitedNations to take action on their behalf.Anyone who knows Amal would hardly be surprised atthis. I first met her while she was in the first flush of her relationshipwith George, not long after they’d met, at a lunchat his home in Lake Como, and they remain as smitten witheach other now as they were then. As in all great relationships, it is as if they each affirm each other’s view of the world whilealso allowing themselves the freedom to be independent.Writer Nathan Heller visited Amal at their home in the Englishcountryside, which—save for the trees planted to protectthem from the prying lenses of the paparazzi—shows everyindication of being a place where a loving couple are living anunpretentious and idyllic family life. They pursue their workingambitions, defend the values they believe in (the Clooneyswere the first in Hollywood to donate a substantial amount tothe fund for the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School–shooting activists, encouraging others to quickly follow suit),and, above all, enjoy their adorable twins, Alexander and Ella,who are without doubt a mini-George and mini-Amal. (Thelast time I visited for dinner, the Clooneys answered the door,grinning ear to ear, each with a baby under one arm.)Amal, along with Rihanna and Donatella Versace, is mycohost for this May’s Met gala, which ushers in the 2018Costume Institute show “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion andthe Catholic Imagination.” Donatella and I have knowneach other for more years than either of us likely cares toremember, and she is and always has been one of my favoritepeople in the fashion industry, as much for her humor andloyalty as for her sizable talent. When it is as if they each affirm each other’s view of the world whilealso allowing themselves the freedom to be independent.Writer Nathan Heller visited Amal at their home in the Englishcountryside, which—save for the trees planted to protectthem from the prying lenses of the paparazzi—shows everyindication of being a place where a loving couple are living anunpretentious and idyllic family life. They pursue their workingambitions, defend the values they believe in (the Clooneyswere the first in Hollywood to donate a substantial amount tothe fund for the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School–shooting activists, encouraging others to quickly follow suit),and, above all, enjoy their adorable twins, Alexander and Ella,who are without doubt a mini-George and mini-Amal. (Thelast time I visited for dinner, the Clooneys answered the door,grinning ear to ear, each with a baby under one arm.)Amal, along with Rihanna and Donatella Versace, is mycohost for this May’s Met gala, which ushers in the 2018Costume Institute show “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion andthe Catholic Imagination.” Donatella and I have knowneach other for more years than either of us likely cares toremember, and she is and always has been one of my favoritepeople in the fashion industry, as much for her humor andloyalty as for her sizable talent. When The exhibition itself has been years in the making, and itwill be not only the largest Costume Institute show to datebut the biggest show ever at the Metropolitan Museum ofArt. It’s hard to not sound hyperbolic about it, but it is goingto be an absolutely magnificent experience—spanning some26 galleries and including work from the likes of Valentino,Gaultier, and Dolce & Gabbana along with more than 40extraordinarily opulent liturgical garments and accessories onloan from the Vatican. For the first time ever, there will alsobe an extension of the show running at the Met Cloisters, amuseum at Fort Tryon Park in upper Manhattan, where themore monastic examples of fashion’s inspiration from theChurch, such as those from Cristóbal Balenciaga, will be onview. (Should be you be visiting New York and planning tosee the exhibition, I’d urge you to also take the time to headnorthward; the Cloisters element will be just as stunning.)For curator Andrew Bolton, it required endless hours ofpatience in dealing with the Vatican, given the labyrinthineway that it operates. Invariably, Andrew would finally arrangea meeting with one of the Church’s officials, only to be toldthey were on a retreat—or, when he actually got to speak tosomeone in person, he’d discover they were thrilled with theidea of the exhibition . . . they just couldn’t really help, asthey were the wrong person to speak with. In the end, theVatican has been an incredible partner on this show, lendingpieces that have been rarely, if ever, seen. One tiara, anointedwith 19,000 gems (of which perhaps 18,000 are diamonds),is a masterpiece. Writer Maureen Dowd has crafted a terrificpersonal essay about the show, which accompanies the sittingby photographer Philip-Lorca diCorcia and ExecutiveFashion Editor Phyllis Posnick. Maureen’s words underscorethe unique experience “Heavenly Bodies” offers: the visceralthrill to be had from a show that connects deeply with faith,history, and creativity. 