<MAGZ.VOGP.September.2015.0140>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3836724 >< ----- Beauty --- >HealthLetThemEat FATEndurance athletes have longsworn by theketogenic—or“fat burner”—diet, which takesAtkins to theextreme. ElizabethWeil tests it out.CREAM TEAMTHE KETOGENIC PLAN IS HEAVY ON CHARCUTERIE, FRIEDAVOCADOS, AND CHEESE-AND-BUTTER ROLL-UPSContemporary diets are bewildering—aloewater at 6:00 a.m., fast until three, only600 calories on Tuesdays and Thursdays.I’d assiduously avoided all this rigid meal-planning,choosing to eat instead likeMichael Pollan, if Michael Pollan were aFrenchwoman with an excellent sense ofportion control. But then I reconsideredmy stance. Impressed by the slimmed-down Robin Wright andLeBron James, I decided to follow their leads and turn myselfinto a fat burner—a person whose body runs by burning fatinstead of carbs. My new diet was said to lead to not only asculpted body but increased happiness and better sex. Yet it hadrules, strict rules, and it left me disoriented, mistrusting two oflife’s most common measuring devices, the clock and the scale. The ketogenic, or high-fat, diet has long been a favoriteamong ultraendurance athletes. Lately, it’s been adopted bysaner types, too—or at least those who’d like to look like theyran a half-marathon last weekend. This diet involves consumingonly 5 percent of calories from carbs and only 15 percentfrom protein. Doing this requires not only a shift in menu butan altered logic: Eating fat does not make you fat; eating fatmakes you burn fat.This dietary koan was delivered to me by the Duke Universitybariatric physician Eric Westman, M.D. I took asmy fat-burning bible a book he coauthored called KetoClarity: Your Definitive Guide to the Benefits of a Low-Carb, High-Fat Diet. The book pledged not onlyweight loss but also better skin and slower aging. In strictaccordance with the text, I began consuming a couple eggs, aquarter stick of butter, half an avocado, and six slices of bacona day. Eating as many calories as I wanted total, albeit inthe right ratio, I dropped a few pounds in a week, too. But Iwas having a hard time accepting some of Keto Clarity’s advice.<What to do when craving a piece of fruit?><INTER> 
(<And believe me, I craved><SENT>; oranges have never looked so good.) 
“<Roll up a slice of full-fat cheese with grass-fed butter in the middle><INTER>.”The idea of becoming a fat burner sounds modestly sciencefictional,not to mention superhero-ish, but the research issound. To put the biology in its most basic terms: Our bodieshave two fuel tanks, one for sugars and onefor fats. If you eat mostly carbohydrates—grains, fruits, vegetables, starches, legumes—then you’ll burn mainly sugar for fuel. Thosestores typically contain enough energy forabout a day. Once the sugar is gone, we feelhungry, tired, and weak. Meanwhile, for themost part, our fat just sits there, since insulin,the hormone produced by metabolizing carbohydrates,blocks our bodies from burningfat. “<Has there ever been a more unfortunate homonym?><SENT> One word means two very different things: thefat we eat and the fat on our bodies,” Nina Teicholz writes inThe Big Fat Surprise: Why Butter, Meat & Cheese Belong ina Healthy Diet. “It’s so hard for our brains to fully grasp thatthere are two entirely separate definitions of fat.” As Cate Shanahan, M.D., author of FoodRules: A Doctor’s Guide to Healthy Eatingand a consultant to professional athleteson becoming a fat burner, told me, a typicalfive-foot-five-inch, 120-pound woman carrieson her body well over 100,000 caloriesof fat. And maddeningly, those literal and metaphoric saddlebagsremain out of reach.Much of this is old news to metabolism aficionados, includingpeople who have or study seizure conditions; theyhave known for around 100 years that a brain fueled by fats(or actually by ketones, the by-product of burning fats) ratherthan by carbohydrates is less prone to seize. More famously,dear departed Dr. Robert Atkins, who died in 2003, promoteda ketogenic diet, much to the shock and horror of hisphysician peers, who were then positive, and wrong, that alow-fat regimen 
(<remember the 1980s favorite the Scarsdale diet, with its smorgasbords of grapefruit and toast?><SENT>) was thebest way to lose weight. Meanwhile, Atkins enjoyed a loyal,rich, and famous clientele, and he sold millions of booksbecause, however kooky his high-fat protocol seemed, theregimen produced results. Near the end of his career, Atkinsinvited Westman, then a fellow in internal medicine at DukeUniversity Medical Center, to study his clinic’s data. Westmanconfirmed that, indeed, Atkins was right: Consuming85 percent of one’s calories from fat causes a person to loseweight. Of course, Atkins was less of an extremist thancontemporary keto promoters—after the first two weekson his diet, he allowed people to add melons and beans, and once a person was within ten pounds of her target weight, heopened up the pantry to include sweet potatoes, pineapple,even (whole-wheat) pasta. But keto followers eat high-fat foryears, even label themselves as leading a high-fat, low-carblifestyle—HFLC, if you must. Some doctors believe high-fatdiets increase risk of heart disease, but says Westman, “Youcan think of your metabolism as having an accelerator and abrake. You speed up, or lose weight, when you burn fat. Whenyou eat carbohydrates, you put your foot on the brake.”Years before picking up Keto Clarity, I’d accepted thesad adult reality that eating bread is basically like eatingOreos, so I’d cut back on flour and sugar. (Apart from juicecleanses, pretty much every major weight-loss program restrictscarbs.) <But you know the 80/20 rule?><INTER>The corollary for the ketogenic diet is thatthe last 5 percent is 100 percent of the nightmare.<Eating some fat><INTER>: <great><INTER>.
<Eating a lot of fat><INTER>: <fantastic!><INTER> 
<Consuming almost exclusively fat, delicious as pâté might be><INTER>: <I’d rather live on kale, thank you very much><INTER>.Still, I love cheese, and through my firstweek, I remained cheery. Greek yogurt, salami,sunflower seeds, salad with lots of dressing,roasted nuts; <what’s not to like?><SENT> Then Istarted to crack. I stared like a puppy while my husband ate apoached egg on toast—toast! I slapped my children’s fingersaway while I hoarded my small clutch of raspberries (a verylow-sugar fruit) and whipped cream as an after-dinner treat.Consulting Keto Clarity for menu ideas sent me toward despair.Pan-fried avocados; keto pizza with a pork-rind crust. 
<How did this become my life?><INTER> I felt sluggish and fuzzy-brained—somuch so that while swimming laps, I was so off my pace andout of it that I became convinced that the pool clock was slow.To check on my progress, I bought a package of Ketostix,little strips of plastic and paper that work like pregnancytests, except instead of revealing a plus sign in the presenceof pregnancy hormones, they turn pink upon detecting ketones.And for the first week, sadly, no pink, just beige, whichwas not surprising. (Westman warned me that it takes yourbody a little while to become efficient at burning fat.) Still, Iwanted a good grade.I doubled down. I nixed the raspberries. I cut back on nuts(secret carbs). After a while my Ketostix started turning darkpink. I still couldn’t push hard at the gym—HFLC athletescomplain about this, too—but I was back to my weddingweight. I can’t say I aged more slowly or that my skin magicallyregained its smooth, youthful glow, but I will say that Iate unlimited charcuterie and felt terrific.The problem, as always with all extreme diets, is that theregimen is antisocial. My ketogenic run broke down whileI was celebrating with friends in San Francisco’s Chinatown:a big birthday, buns stuffed with Peking duck. I wasso happy to be a normal human again, to no longer be adiet- and self-consumed bore. But should the duck-bunlifestyle become a problem—and let’s not kid ourselves; itwill—I have a plan in place. I will take a long trip to France,where I’ll eat only pâté. Then I’ll fly home and stock my refrigeratorwith cheese-and-butter roll-ups. I’ll make bacon,too. <Please come visit me><SENT>. 