< MAGZ.VOGP.MARCH.2016.0020>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3908962>< ------------ Nostalgia ----------- >TNTElisabeth TNT meets herlatest obsessions—art-world darlingsRachel Rose and Kerstin Brätsch.As a young child I loved playing next to a sculptureof goat atop a pig, two dogs atop the goat,and a little birdie crowning them all. It wasStacked, by Jeff Koons—not that the namemattered to me back then. All I cared aboutwas the sculpture’s size, presence, and strange narrative. Mymother managed to blend this and other <not-always-easy><INTRA>works of art into our family home. Artists came to stay withus, too: Koons, Keith Haring, George Condo . . . there wasalways someone passing through, and often they became myfavorite guests. I wonder if my interest in art is even remotelysurprising, with such an upbringing.Recently I’ve been seeing work bya couple of emerging artists whereverI go—art fairs and gallery exhibitionsall over the globe. Both arewomen, both reside in New York,and somehow their sensibilities andconcerns—stirringly emotional andrigorously conceptual—speak to meso much that I decided I had to meetthem and suss them out in person.Rachel Rose is not yet 30 and alreadyhas an impressive string of exhibitionsin some of the world’s mostrenowned institutions under her belt.I first fell in love with her work as Iwalked through the Frieze Art Fairin London last year. In this brightly litexhibition tent, where one gallery cubiclecrowds next to the other and everycorner is jammed with collectorsand dealers speaking languages fromall corners of the world, I found reprievein Rose’s small construction, a scale model of the Friezetent itself, its interior bathed in light and sound. As the winnerof the Frieze Artist Award, she had worked with scientists todesign audio that approximated the sensory experiences ofthe animals inhabiting London’s Regent’s Park (where Friezeis held). To crawl inside her installation was to have the noisycommercial goings-on disappear and be quietly transportedinto a different reality. Rose in a nutshell. Moving around in her seat, picking at her plate of mezze,her long chestnut hair framing a fair, thoughtful face, Rose isdressed in a long-sleeved T-shirt and slacks and looks utterlyunassuming. It would be easy to mistake her for just anothercool New Yorker having lunch at a Nolita café. But onceshe starts talking it is clear that her quiet composure masksa wellspring of questions, concerns, and fears. “I didn’t understandhow I could be an artist and also care deeply aboutthe things around us, that affect how we live and think,” shetells me. “Art felt like a vacuum. I had and have a lot of doubtabout art.”As a student at Yale and then Columbia, she abandonedthe idea of becoming a painter. Later, it was her interest indocumentary film that led her back to art. And once she is onto an idea, there is no turning back. Recently, after watchingtwo Hollywood films—Gravity and Interstellar—she becameobsessed by the idea of exploring the boundaries of life onEarth and the infinite experience of space. This led to Everythingand More, the video installation recently exhibited at theWhitney Museum of American Art. I watched the eleven-minutepiece over and over, moved by the vivid colors, shapes,and textures in the frame, the images of machinery shot in aneutral-buoyancy lab in Maryland, all of this overlaid withthe crackly voice of the retired NASA astronaut David Wolf.<Tracking down Wolf was arduous><SENT>, Rose says; countlessemails and cold calls finally took her to him.The second artist I’ve been obsessed with, Kerstin Brätsch,seems as different from the quiet and composed Rose asa person could be. When I meet Brätsch at her Brooklynstudio, her energy is electric, charged, maybe a tad nervous.Petite, dressed in skinny jeans and biker boots, she looks likesomeone who can paint, party, and paint for days on end.She speaks rapidly with multiple tangents to each story, andone lows into the next. There is no time for small talk, notime for questions as she leads me through her light-filledstudio. The walls are white and bare aside from a couple oflarge paintings, which she self-deprecatingly dismisses asunfinished trials. They look vibrant and beautiful to me. Shetells me her focus is on her show opening in March at theSerpentine Sackler Gallery in London, a mock-up of whichis in the studio’s corner. This helps me visualize what shedescribes at head-spinning speed. There will be a collaboration(in Brätsch’s work there usually is) with friend and fellowartist Adele Röder. There will be more of her Mylar paintings(my favorites); there will be her beautiful glass-blown“brushstrokes.” “Working with glass is painting with light,”she explains. To me, what makes Brätsch’s work stand out isher defiance of physical constraints. She seems to share thisattitude with Rose. Both artists thrive on overcoming a challenge:Rose in her quest to “not make art in a vacuum,” toovercome her doubt about its usefulness; Brätsch by tacklingwork of enormous scale, by working with chemicals and glass,by using different techniques that require learning new skills,and leaning on masters of these disciplines for assistance. It’sas if she wants to challenge her know-how as an artist, andgenerally the constraints of the medium of painting itself. Or,as she puts it: “I am basically collaborating with the elementalforces of the universe.”