< MAGZ.VOGP.August.2016.0172>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< ---  nostalgia--- >I’ve GotSUNSHINEFor BOB MORRIS,Brown University, on thechilly East Coast,paled in comparison withCalifornia—until hemet a radiant andinspiring new friend.I didn’t want to be in Providence in January of 1980.I had been living in Santa Cruz, California, wherethe winters were sunny and people the same. BrownUniversity, with its old brick buildings in a grimindustrial city, seemed like prison in comparison.But I was willing to serve my time. I didn’t knowa soul and rented an apartment far from campus.My second Saturday night I showed up at a shingled housefor a transfer-student party. It was stuffy and smoky, and Ifelt invisible. I was about to leave when I came upon a floridcheekedgirl with corn-silk hair at the front door. She lookedlike Alice in a room she had magically outgrown. Her noseand mouth were in the mail slot.“What are you doing?” I asked.She jumped up. “I was just getting some air,” she said.I asked her name. She told me it was Barbara.“Are you a piano teacher from Indiana?” I asked.She tilted her head to the side. “No, but why do you ask?”I asked because her skirt and sweater were so modest, hertone so gentle. She exuded surprising humility for someone asbeautiful as Catherine Deneuve. A blast of music came fromthe upstairs dance floor. Talking Heads.“Want to?” I asked.From the moment we started moving, mepogo dancing as if plugged into a socket, shewaving her hands around with the grace ofa Kathakali dancer, I felt my spirits rise. Ourfirst weeks together felt like a courtship. Atnight I walked her to her dorm, where sheturned me on to Lene Lovich and Roxy Music’sshimmering “Spin Me Round.” On hisalbum cover in a white dinner jacket, BryanFerry made us swoon to “Another Time,Another Place.” I worried about telling herabout my sexuality. I didn’t want to rewirethe electricity between us, regardless of myunwavering interest in men.One night we were party-hopping. Ahulking student yanked on the blue bandannaI was wearing around my neck that Ithought suggested French New Wave.“What are you, gay?” he asked.I blushed and without responding tookBarbara by the arm and moved on. I feltuncomfortable for the rest of the evening.But even when I walked her home through aheavy snow to say good night, I said nothing.Then I called her at 2:00 a.m.“I should have told him I’m gay,” I said.She sighed. “Forget it, that guy was ajerk.”My heart pounded. I was coming out toa person who felt like the love of my life. Ihung up worried it would be over betweenus. But the next day she said she could seeI was different from other men and shewasn’t surprised I was gay. With that behind us, the fun andinfatuation accelerated. She egged me on to write a poem onthe white walls of her dorm building. I cooed over her trippyTechnicolor drawings and posed for the black-and-whitephotographs she took with a vintage camera that capturedlife in a dreamlike blur. One was of me in a tuxedo with a 45record on my head. We danced around campus like sprites.One of the physical aspects defining adolescence is anexplosion of neural connections that encourages risk andunchecked enthusiasm. We looked at everything intensely,even when sitting in the dark waving cigarettes to Bowie’s“Sound and Vision.” She gave me confidence. Everythingabout her spoke to a kind of playfulness and poetry I hadinside but didn’t always know how to express. We found ittogether in daily life. She called it the theater of the moment.One day in April, with forsythia in bloom and buds appearingon magnolia trees, I waited for her on a bench onthe campus green. It was barely warm enough for plaidBermudas and a bike. She was back from a devastating NewYork weekend. Her boyfriend had broken up with her. Shewas feeling bruised.“And there you were—shorts, bike sunglasses,” she later recalled, “to say, ‘Barbara, it’sspring,’ and the warmth inside me just burst!”When we separated for our summer jobs, she wroteexquisite letters from Maine. Her handwriting wasmeasured and gracious. But her observations anddrawings were something else—with pastel blasts ofwind, squiggles of glittering water, cursive letters slantingas if blowing off the page, punk and pretty.We moved in together that fall, and the modest topfloor of a clapboard home on a tree-lined street becameour Pee-Wee’s playhouse. We spun “The Hokey Pokey”on the stereo until it scared our roommates. We decoratedthe living room with drawings and projected familymovies on the walls. One February night I was walkinghome on my birthday and looked up to see strands ofpink ribbon blowing from dozens of icy tree branches.Nobody but Barbara would do that. She had boyfriendson and off. I did not, and it hardly bothered me, because Iknew she was mine. Eventually the performance art, graffiti poems,videos, installations, and other projects that madesleep expendable ended. Graduation came. I wentoff to work for an experimental theater in Italy.She moved to Manhattan to make art. But whenher mother developed a brain tumor in Ohio, she went hometo help and never lived on the East Coast again.“I just felt it was time to go,” she told me later.For years after college, her influence was strong—in themusic I played, the way I looked at art, and in the letters Iwrote her. I made pilgrimages to Ohio, where she showedme hand-decorated mailboxes, old amusement parks, andglimpses of the innocent Americana that informed the sameplayful kitsch aesthetic I was seeing on St. Marks Place withDevo and the Waitresses as the sound track. But New York,as much as it is a place for play, makes you aware like nowhereelse of not just making a living but making a mark. As Istruggled to become a writer and she got a master’s in videoeducation, our letters become more logistical and less lyrical.When she told me she was getting married, I was still single.I told her it made me sad to lose her but that at least it wasto a nice guy who looked like me. I played the ukulele at herwedding—in an old lakeside amusement park—with a chorusof friends singing a song I had written for the occasion.I don’t think I’m the only one who has cried at a friend’swedding for something other than joy. I was mourning theloss of the collaborative paradise that Barbara and I shared.We kept our spark going as best we could, and while itwasn’t always easy to find our rhythm, we didn’t give up oneach other. But as the decades passed, I felt frustrated thatthis quiet light bristling with talent had settled back into herpleasant hometown an hour’s drive from Cleveland. She wasliving with her husband, an arborist, their only son, and hersoft-spoken mother—now recovered—in her 200-year-oldchildhood home with a big garden, a situation that soundedidyllic but made it hard to want to visit. She helped start thelocal public-access TV station and was making hand-printedlinens that a store co-owned by Carly Simon was selling onMartha’s Vineyard. Her work got to Diane Sawyer, Katharine Graham of The Washington Post, and, through friends, toJohn Kennedy Jr. and Carolyn Bessette. But when I pressed tohelp her promote her work—I had become a New York stylejournalist with connections by then—she demurred.I don’t know why I was so disappointed. Barbara did notwant to use her beauty or talent to push herself the way somany do in the hectic self-promotional world I’d come toinhabit. She loved her pretty town and felt conviction documentingparades and producing videos on local history. Shewas more at home in her world than I was in mine, I realized,as I kept flailing for attention and “likes” on social media.Last summer she flew east. She came with me to a reading ata Connecticut bookstore from a memoir I had written, and Iwas immensely happy to have her there. Afterward, we droveto our beloved Providence. We walked in our slow, deliberateway on College Hill and quacked very quietly into eachother’s ears as we once did on the way to class each morning.I pointed out where I had shot a video of her. She pointedout the street she had walked to her waitressing job, feelingslightly ridiculous in the outfits I insisted she wear: elaboratethrift-store gowns and lipstick that obscured the naturalbeauty of her clear green eyes and opalescent skin.I cringed a little and apologized if I had pushed her too far.“You always extended situations beyond where I would takethem,” she said, “but they were usually such good ideas that Iended up thinking, <Well, why not?><SENT>” We turned a corner ontothe street where we used to live. “I still feel that way,” she said.When we reached the clapboard house we once shared,we sat down on the steps just as we had many years before.People passed by pushing strollers, riding bikes, and walkingdogs. Shadows changed; clouds drifted above the rustlingmaple and oak trees. We inhaled the softness and quiet. It wasour theater of the moment, rich with poetry.  