< MAGZ.VOGP.MARCH.2016.0027>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3908962>< -------- Beauty ------- >MakeupAt once futuristic and disco-glam, modern molten finishes are this season’s must-have.A funny thing happened while I watched thespring runways—first in New York, then inParis: As a quintessential California child ofhippies who grew up eating avocados of thetree and panning for gold at Sutter’s Mill, Ifelt an odd pang of nostalgia. When the makeup artist PatMcGrath turned up at the Jardin des Tuileries with a lashmakeup mob to officially reveal the 24K, Fort Knox–worthygold pigment she’d been teasing backstage, the pang becamemore of a craving. “Molten, liquid metal” is how McGrath describesthe glimmering substance she applied on her assembledlock of pals and models (and model pals). I wanted burnishedlids like Bella Hadid’s and Lily Donaldson’s the way I wantedgold lakes back when sieving muddy river water was my thing.Gold wasn’t the only precious metal to migrate to the moreprominent planes of the face this season. At Maison Margiela,John Galliano’s retro-futuristic women wore silver eye paintin shapes descended from Matisse cutouts and Japanesewoodblock prints. At Diane von Furstenberg, models’ eyes resembled shimmering anemones of celadon and teal. Makeup artist Val Garland picked up the soldering iron at GiambattistaValli, atomizing her metallic hues into varicolored glitterto create a streak above eyelids that sparkled like pastry sugar.Part warrior princess and part high priestess, the newmetallic makeup lands somewhere between pretty and striking.Apply with a heavy hand, like the von Furstenbergbutterflies, and you iridesce. Apply with a light hand, as themakeup artist James Kaliardos did at Rodarte, multitaskingshimmering blushes and highlighters on eyes and cheeks,and you look sunlit.Precision, Kaliardos stipulates, is key to success. “Youwant metallics contained within a specific destination, oryou can end up looking like the Tin Man,” he advises. Abetter inspiration to mine from Kaliardos’s mental moodboard: Grace Jones.Jones was no stranger to the reflective embellishment’spower. In her impishly titled 2015 book, I’ll Never Write MyMemoirs, she recalls her journey from buttoned-up girlhood(no nail polish permitted) to genre-dissolving glam-rockicon, a metamorphosis in which a metallic ruby eye or aglowing amber cupid’s bow played a large part. “I wantedto be bigger, stronger, more myself,” she writes of her adventuresin face painting. “I wanted to look more like I felt.”And we all shine on.—MOLLY YOUNG