< MAGZ.VOGP.MARCH.2016.0018>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3908962>< -------- Letter from the editor --------- >  HearthemROAR<Those of you who are regular readers of Vogue><INTRA>know that one ofthe things we’rekeen on is placingfashion withinthe context of the cultural andsocietal factors that can shape itin profound and meaningful ways.Something seismic has clearly beenhappening these last six months,if what we saw at the spring 2016collections is anything to go by.The word we kept coming back toafter those shows was disruption,and in “The Great Disruption”(page 457) you can discover the designersboth established and newwho are upending the industry, notto mention our closets, with theirexciting, <break-all-the-rules><INTRA> visionsof how things should look and be.The portfolio accompanying SarahMower’s story also allowed us tophotograph a few swaggeringly cool characters whom youmight not necessarily expect to see in the pages of Vogue,and that is a good thing; after all, if we didn’t disrupt ourselvesa little, then <what would be the point?><SENT>Fashion is, like everything else in the world today, in themidst of what President Obama, in his last State of theUnion address, called “extraordinary change.” His speechencapsulated everything that has made his presidency soinspiring, dynamic, and impactful, characterized by leadershipthat has been wonderfully courageous and deeplyempathetic, and I want to take this opportunity to thankhim for all of the advances that he and his administration have achieved these past eight years.Of course, with 2016 being an electionyear, it carries the promise of all sortsof change. Personally, though, I’d liketo go against the grain and say that what I am hoping for,post-election, is instead a sense of stability and constancy, ofbravely staying the course, especially when one considers allthat we are faced with at the moment: women’s rights challenged,global terrorism, the refugee crisis, racial inequalityand oppression, and the need for gun control.That brings me to Democratic-nominee front-runner HillaryClinton, whom we profile this month (“The Race Is On,”page 498). Secretary Clinton allowed writer Jonathan VanMeter inside her campaign machine as it geared up for thepresidential primaries, crisscrossing the country from NewYork to Iowa to New Hampshire and back again. Jonathan’sengrossing profile illustrates not only the secretary’s charismaticbrilliance but also the warm and sympathetic sideof her personality, which represents so much of who she is.One single line in it—a quote from an anonymous attendeeat a town hall in Iowa City—exactly mirrors my own feelings:“When I listen to you,” this woman said, “I feel that thepolitical discourse is taken back to sanity.” That sentiment isespecially apt given that we are in an election race unlike anyother in living memory.Jonathan’s piece obviously delves into the real chance ofSecretary Clinton’s becoming our first female president,which would be a momentous occasion, and he makes acompelling argument for how the generational stages somany of us women face in life prepare one to be a very particularkind of leader. And yet, when it comes to SecretaryClinton, gender is really only part of the story. Withoutdoubt she represents the most solid, experienced, and fierMcelyintelligent candidate worthy of the highest office in theland, more so than any in the current field of hopefuls. Asformer Obama-campaign manager David Plouffe states, “Atthe end of the day, people can envision her behind that desktalking to the country, engaging with world leaders.” I, like everyone else, will be closely watchingwhat unfolds in the months tocome, and I will definitely be supportingHillary Clinton.Our cover star, Adele (“The Voice,” page 508), is also nostranger to the incessant clamor of global media attention,though the British singer has found a clever way to dealwith it: She simply removes herself from the public gaze formonths at a time, keeps her head down, and gets on with herlife with her boyfriend and son before returning to achieveever greater levels of success. I thoroughly enjoyed HamishBowles’s funny, upbeat, and life-affirming piece, and I hopeyou do too. The adorable, honest—<and, yes, bawdy><INTRA>—Adelethat emerges is different from the emotionally intense, painfuleven, songs of hers that have touched so many. Yet it isobvious that she has lived what she sings. She is a reminderthat authenticity always wins—something that I hope willprove to be the case come November 8.