< MAGZ.VOGP.January.2018.0183>< https://libgen.lc/magz/journaltable.php?s_id=5360 >< ---  Letter from the editor--- >Above & BeyondWHEN WE FIRST STARTED WORKING ON THIS ISSUEseveral months back, the idea was to shine a light on wellness—to look at the many ways we’re now seeking health,calm, and an alignment between ourselves and the increasinglyfraught and pressured world we exist in today. (So ferventis the interest in the subject that, in the office, we startedto jokingly refer to wellness as the new religion!) And indeed:You’ll find plenty of profiles of strong, independent womenwho are leading the charge to transform our lives, whether inthe arenas of fitness, health, and activism, or with a particularlypersonal sense of heroism.As the weeks progressed, though, that latter aspect tookon greater urgency as more and more women began to speakout about the awful situations and harrowing experiencesthey had to endure because of the actions of men who usedpower and position to subjugate and abuse them—physically,mentally, and sexually. It soon became obvious that wellnessis about far more than our desire for the experiential changeof meditation and a cool new exercise class—it’s part of asea-change moment for women, who are rising up to assertthemselves and take charge of their lives.Fashion, the mainstay of what we do here, has not goneunchanged by this, and that can only be a good thing. I’vewritten in the past about the despairing state of the runwayshows, which until recently featured an appalling lack ofdiversity. But things are changing. I’m delighted to see farmore women of color walking shows—at long last—and lessemphasis on the way-too-thin. Many of the best models arerefusing to be pawns in the fashion game but are instead findingtheir voices and leading by example. I think of AdwoaAboah, Cameron Russell, Slick Woods, Paloma Elsesser,and, of course, Ashley Graham. Ashley has been a terrific role model for showing thatwomen don’t have to conform to some ridiculous standardof thinness to be beautiful or to have a career. Of course, thathasn’t always been the case in the past, and Ashley has spokenout about this in direct and straightforward terms. Thatkind of honesty and transparency is, thankfully, becomingcrucial to living our lives authentically, and for another shiningexample of this I urge you all to read the remarkablymoving essay that Mimi O’Donnell has written. Mimi wasthe partner of the late actor Philip Seymour Hoffman, andshe narrates her love for a man who dearly loved her backwhile he—and she—dealt with the addictions that would, inthe end, claim his life.Lastly, our cover star, Lupita Nyong’o, whom I amalways thrilled to see in Vogue. Lupita may have becomepart of our Vogue world, but she is also most definitely ofthe world: a global star who constantly shuns the obvioustrappings of fame, instead using it as a platform to highlighther values and what’s fundamentally important to her.Returning to our wellness theme: Lupita was game to tryall of the new and unexpected places that one can exercise.Yet in the end she—along with all the other women featuredhere—underscores that if one wants to truly find a sense ofwellness and confidence, it comes from that most expectedof places: oneself. 