<MAGZ.VOGP.September.2015.0120>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3836724 >< ----- Nostalgia ---- >True ReligionUntamedHeartFor VAL BRELINSKI, who grew up inan evangelical community, a stolenphotograph of Marisa Berenson epitomizedall the freedoms she was denied.In the summer of 1970,when I was nearly fourteen,I spent my morningsin a church basementteaching vacation Biblestudy to grade-schoolersand my afternoons in acorner of the public library, poringover back issues of Vogue. The periodicalroom’s only other habitualoccupants were two retired farmerswho dozed with their hands foldedacross their overall bibs. We deliberatelyignored one another as weengaged in our silent pastimes.While Seventeen and Mademoisellefeatured models that lookedlike the popular girls in my town—all smooth hair and sweet, docilesmiles—the ordinary rules of femininitydidn’t apply to the women inVogue. They wore feathered headdressesand velvet cloaks and miniskirtsmade of metal. They lungedand scowled through forests andsouks and ballrooms, unconcernedabout summers spent detasselingcorn or next year’s Algebra II class.Even in our conservative pocketof rural Idaho, where the sixtiesonly showed up midway throughthe seventies, my family and I wereconsidered strange. My parentswere devout evangelical Christians,and our modest clothing, out-ofdatehairstyles, and nonparticipationin nearly every popular activitycemented our outsider status. Myfather soberly pushed an old rotarymower across our front lawn in along-sleeved shirt and tie. My mother eschewed all makeupand bared her legs and upper arms only when medically necessary.According to our church manual, we evangelicals wereto be “in the world, but not of the world.” Circuses, bowlingalleys, card playing, dancing, swimming, makeup, flashyjewelry, and immodest dressing of any kind were forbidden.I adhered to the rules, yet I dreamed of escape. My fantasiesinvolved living in a high-ceilinged, many-windowedapartment and wearing minidresses with colored tights andplatform Mary Janes. I would be a painter and visit museumsand coffee shops and bars, where I would meet strangerswho smoked exotic-smelling cigarettes. I had no idea how Iwould become this fascinating person, but I knew that thiskind of life was possible because I had seen it all in the pagesof Vogue. With a razor blade that I’d filched from my father’sGillette, I took to stealthily slicing my favorite photos out ofthe magazine and sliding them into the battered Pee-Cheefolder I stored in the back of my basement bedroom closet. After several months of these library visits, I came home fromschool one day to find my mother standing in my bedroom,my Pee-Chee folder on the bedspread. Next to it was a photographof Marisa Berenson wearing an armored miniskirt,a peace-sign body ornament, and little else. Her wildly untamed, Medusa-like hair and face-paint eyemakeup gave her the daring, self-possessed look of a queenwho feasted on nothing but air and the bones of her enemies.Of all the photographs I had collected, this was my absolutefavorite, in no small part because Marisa’s faraway eyes andferal hair seemed idealized versions of my own.My mother crossed her arms and looked away from theoffending image. “What is this?” she asked.“It’s fashion,” I whispered, as if this explained everything.My mother made a dismissive sound. She scooped up theevidence and marched up the stairs.There was no place set for me at the dinner table that evening.I went to church-choir practice, as I did every Wednesdaynight. When I came home, I found the front door to ourhouse locked, the back door too. Most distressing of all wasthe grocery bag on the porch step. Inside the brown paperbag were two skirts, a sweater, and a wool jacket. I stareduncomprehendingly at these items until I realized that thiswas what I was supposed to wear while I lived somewhere else.I sat on the cold step, grocery bag on my lap, and contemplatedmy options. I could ring the doorbell and facemy mother’s scowl, or scratch at my younger sister’s windowscreen to see if she would let me in. Instead, I found myselfunlatching the back gate and heading toward the trash cans.The folder was at the very bottom, its contents amazinglyundamaged. I pulled out my prized possession: MarisaBerenson in all her glory, her eyes devoid of shame. Shefelt no responsibility for the ways in which her half-nuditymight be received, for she had done nothing wrong. She wasmerely and positively and freely herself—something I mightsomeday be as well. I carefully folded the photo and placedit inside my shirt, then unlatched the gate and walked towardmy younger sister’s window.As I grew older, my parents’ restrictions becameincreasingly confining: If I dared to listen tothe popular station on my transistor radio ortalk too long on the phone with a boy, I wouldfind myself banished once again from familymealtimes. Grocery bags and locked doors became more andmore common, and I was desperate to find ways to subduethis sting. My first move involved waitressing at our town’ssurf-and-turf restaurant, a place of employment my parentscouldn’t object to, since it didn’t serve alcohol and the waitresseswore ankle-length gingham dresses.One evening when I was seventeen, I came home fromwork, my tips jingling in my pocket, and saw another grocerybag on the porch. That morning a friend of mine had drivenme to work. He had been smoking a cigarette as he waitedoutside our house, and my mother had obviously seen him.I paused for a moment and then picked up the paper bag.This time I walked down the street to the house of a fellowwaitress, where I lived for the next two years, working, goingto school, learning to cook, and sleeping on a couch in acramped but brightly painted hallway. At night I kept the windowin my little makeshift bedroom uncurtained and open.Here I slowly shed my fears of private censure and publicshame, and began to live a different life. My father demandedI return, but I resisted the urge to fall back into the safety of my childhood home. Instead, I hung the minidresses I’d paidfor myself on the hooks above my bed. I studied for and gotmy long-delayed driver’s license. I cut my hair and asked myroommate to teach me how to use makeup.As I continued to distance myself from the tenets of mybackground, my new, more modern appearance and worldlyactions met with my parents’ consternation. After graduatingwith a degree in English from the tiny evangelical collegewhere my father was dean, I decided to take a writing class ata university the next town over. As an undergraduate, I hadstudied only classic works of literature. The morally ambiguousstories of such contemporary writers as Ann Beattie andRaymond Carver were revelatory to me.I began writing my own fiction and submitted to the EnglishJournal’s literary contest a story about a young girl whoknows far more about the world than her parochial parents suspect. The judge awarded the story first prize and offeredme a scholarship to graduate school. Eventually, I movedinto a high-ceilinged, many-windowed apartment in SanFrancisco, much like the one I had dreamed of.I accepted a teaching job at Stanford and daily joinedthe other black-clad, cosmopolitan commuters heading toSilicon Valley. Here I taught the children of actresses andpoliticians, had drinks with heads of Fortune 500 companies,and worked alongside Pulitzer- and Nobel Prize–winningwriters. Each night I returned to my apartment, where I readand wrote and dreamed some more. My earlier, cloistered lifein Idaho now seemed more imaginary than anything I hadinvented in my fiction. My parents finally quit asking me if Iwas attending church or meeting any nice evangelical friends.They didn’t mention the wine bottles they saw on my kitchenshelf during their one visit to California.Not too long ago, my mother and I sat outside on myparents’ patio, reminiscing about days gone by. In the sixyears since I had left Idaho, my father had suffered a majorhealth scare and my younger sister had moved to Las Vegasto pursue a Ph.D. in creative writing. In the past, my parentswould have responded to such developments with insularityand hostility, but now they seemed surprisingly determinedto operate from a position of acceptance. “Remember whenyou kicked me out for having that Marisa Berenson picture?”I asked my mother. “Oh, that,” she said, and gave an unconcernedwave of her hand. I yelped in amazement. The causeof our first serious estrangement, a photograph of liberatedfeminine beauty representing everything I desired and mymother despised, was now something we were laughing about.“What was so important about that photo anyway?” sheasked when we quieted down. I’d needed Marisa in the sameway that my mother needed religion, as a reminder of somethinggrander and more glorious than the life either of usknew. “She was just so beautiful” was all that came out. Therest was left unsaid. 