< MAGZ.VOGP.NOVEMBER.2015.0017>< https://libgen.lc/magz/issue.php?n_id=3836725>< ----------- Beauty -------- >SkinGentle CYCLE With reported cases of sensitive skin on the rise, Kayleen Schaefer seeks comfort in the latest developments for soothing—and staving off—irritation.I never welcome the first chill of winter. While othersrelish the return of boot season and sweaterweather, all I can think about is my face’s slightflush—an early warning sign of the tender, tingling,and <impossible-to-soothe><INTRA> skin that awaitsme in the cold months to come.I am not the only one irritated.According to a study in the InternationalJournal of Dermatology, 51 percent of American womendescribe their skin as “sensitive,” a blanket term that hascome to embody all manner of redness,itchiness, and inflammation—whether realor perceived. “Sensitivity is in the eye of thebeholder,” explains Murad Alam, M.D., aprofessor of dermatology and the head ofcosmetic dermatology and dermatologic surgeryat Northwestern University. Which is tosay: There is no scientific consensus on howto define the word that evokes discomfort inits many unsightly forms. Continues Alam.“Almost everyone will be sensitive to something.”Some of us are born sensitive. But people with normalskin types can also become sensitized, meaning that a singleingredient—even one designed to increase the production ofcollagen and elastin, like vitamin A—can cause irritation atany time. For decades women have relied on no-pain-no-gainpeels and scrubs to boost cellular turnover and enhance skin’sabsorption abilities, but new research suggests that strengtheningthe top of the skin, rather than stripping it, helps activeingredients penetrate better.This theory has long reigned across the Atlantic, which iswhy European best sellers, like French-pharmacy favorite LaRoche-Posay’s Cicaplast Baume B5, are now finding favorStateside. Made with soothing vitamin B5 and moisture-andlipid-replenishing shea butter, the multipurpose unscentedsalve heals and plumps dry skin. Chanel, along with consultingdermatologist Amy Wechsler, M.D., has launched LaSolution 10 de Chanel, which also relieves inflammation whileprotecting the skin from environmental stress, like pollutionand sun exposure. The limited-ingredient cream is formulatedwith mega-antioxidants and without potentially harshfragrances—a first for the perfume house.Making the skin more unyielding is only one part of the solutionto easing sensitivity; maintaining its microflora of bacteriais another. Supporting this natural defense system withthings like probiotics, which feature heavily in Elizabeth Arden’snew Superstart Skin Renewal Booster, is key to ensuringits ability to properly deflect irritants. Fermented ingredients—which break down the molecular structure of actives in productsfrom Immunocologie and the Korean Su:m37—allownutrients and minerals to becomemore symbiotic withthe skin’s ecosystem, makingthem popular with sensitivetypes for the same reason.Marisa Vara Arredondocould have benefited fromthe industry’s recent shiftin her 20s. “I was worriedabout my face,” admits thenow 40-year-old, who spenttwelve years battling irritationas a Wall Street analyst specializing inthe cosmetic, drug, and biotech sector beforestriking out on her own. Arredondo’s recentlylaunched Phace Bioactive focuses on nurturingthe skin’s optimal, slightly acidic pH level to help prevent cracking and brittleness. “Skincare isn’t about blasting through the top layer,”she says—good advice for ensuring that theonly outerwear you fret over this season involveswhich coat to wear.