<MAGZ.VOGP.December.2015.0145>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< --- Beauty --- >HairFRINGEEffectA hit on the runways,microbangs are ascissor-happy solution toyour winter hair rut.I first met E at a plein-air punk show while visiting aConnecticut college. She was an art student with classicalfeatures, but what drew me to her was her bangs:a blunt fringe she had cut close to the hairline, formingan off-kilter frame for her face. I imagined her slidinga forelock under the arm of an art-room paper trimmer andslicing it with the guillotine blade. I liked her even more.To see the chopped microbangs on models at ChristopherKane’s spring show in London was like watching a parade of isomorphic Es: art school girls so attractive they couldmess with your expectations, mar their appearance, and stillenchant. Her bangs were seemingly everywhere: at AlexanderWang, Marc Jacobs, and Lanvin. “I love the idea of a girlhacking at her bangs,” says the hairstylist Guido Palau, whowas largely responsible for proliferating the look, along withsome home-cut irreverence. Hairstylist Didier Malige, who’sbeen snipping a similar set for Hedi Slimane’s brigade ofrock chicks for the past few seasons, crowned Laurent. Microbangs “make a girl lookmore edgy and aggressive,” he offers. WhenI ask why, he answers simply, “You can’thide behind them.”The idea of microbangs might be moreof an affront than the real thing, says Palau.In practice, they can be “modifiedand prettified.” Baby bangs have a genealogyall their own: Audrey Hepburn, AnnaKarina, Audrey Tautou in Amélie. Cutsome fringe a finger’s width above youreyebrows, sweep it to the side, and voilà:une fille. But this isn’t the true look of themoment, whose origins lie elsewhere: inIsabella Blow and Rooney Mara’s LisbethSalander, Milla Jovovich in The Fifth Element, and JaneaneGarofalo in Reality Bites—<in-your-face><INTRA> women who wantto get their hands dirty and their hair out of the way.In considering microbangs, Malige says, it’s importantto gauge the shape of your forehead. They need to be cut wide—past the far end of the eyebrow—or else the face looks too narrow, Palauadds. But it’s the kind of look that “anywoman with the confidence to try” canpull off, he insists. If you’re short on guts,“buy into the idea of being that woman,and then they’ll work.”Model and illustrator Langley Fox isthat woman—so much so that she andher tiny fringe earned a starring role inAlessandra Facchinetti’s recent show atTod’s, not to mention a handful of otherrunway turns and front-row cameos.When I ring Fox to ask about her method,she misses my call: She’s trimmingher bangs. Self-guided maintenance, sheadmits when we finally connect, isn’t always easy, but thereare perks. “I like my eyebrows,” she says, and microbangsframe them well. Fox first made the cut because she “lovedseeing them on other girls.” <Her advice?><INTER> Wear the bangs youwant to see in the world.—DAYNA TORTORICI