<MAGZ.VOGP.December.2015.0141>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< --- Letter from the editor -- >World of WonderEvery December we plan to give you aholiday-season surprise, and this yearthat treat comes in the form of a previewof wonder.land, the National Theatreof London’s social media–era updateof Lewis Carroll’s Alice’s Adventures inWonderland and Through the Looking-Glass (“Dream State,” page 201). It’s a mesmerizing productionstaged by the theater’s artistic director, RufusNorris, and written by playwright Moira Buffini, withsongs by Damon Albarn of Blur and Gorillaz. Whatmakes wonder.land—<you say><SENT> the “<dot><INTRA>,” by the way—soinventive is its central conceit, which substitutes a smartphonescreen for the notion of the looking glass. Aly, alonely, alienated teenager of mixed parentage, creates ablonde Amazonian avatar that goes on to meet all mannerof fantastical creatures in cyberspace.Fairy tales have, ofcourse, always been arich source of inspirationfor Vogue, and inhis essay on wonder.land, writer AdamGreen teases out why:All those stories weread as youngsters,while entirely appropriatefor children,also contain truthsand revelations that are distinctly, sometimes scarily,adult in nature. I like to think ourown retelling of those fables hasover the years explored that tension,thanks to our narrator-in-residence,Grace Coddington. She is an absolutegenius at the fashion sitting–as–storybook, using the clothes sheshoots as much as whom she shootsto tell compelling and memorabletales. (You can see just how giftedshe is in this regard in the recent reissueof her book Grace: Thirty Yearsof Fashion at Vogue; the news of itsbeing back in print will come as arelief to those who have been able tofind the original edition only for eyewateringamounts on eBay!)What makes Grace’s reimaginingof fairy tales so successful is the elementof surprise she always brings.She cast the gorgeous African-American model Beverly Peele asSnow White in a Bruce Weber version of that story thatalso starred Aretha Franklin as the Wicked Queen, as wellas Natalia Vodianova as Alice in Vogue’s previous trip toWonderland, in which Grace had designers—Marc Jacobs,John Galliano, Christian Lacroix—taking on Carroll’s characters. She also had Nataliaplay Little Red Riding Hood ina sitting photographed by MertAlas and Marcus Piggott, and it isto that duo Grace turned to photographour current wonder.land.Her sly wink here was to have Kendall Jenner, a model whois no stranger to another kind of wonderland—one calledInstagram—as Alice’s avatar.Speaking of incredible characters who ignite the imagination:our cover star, Jennifer Lawrence. You can read atlength in Jonathan Van Meter’s lively profile (“Laying Downthe Law,” page 212) why Jennifer is such a great actress—aswell as an outspoken advocate for gender equality in themovie industry. She graces this issue because of the finalinstallment of the Hunger Games, as well as her latest DavidO. Russell collaboration, Joy, yet there is another, albeitunplanned, aspect to the timing of her appearance thatmakes sense. Vogue’s editors and I have just finished seeingall of the spring 2016 collections, and in talking about themthe words we kept coming back to time and time again wereauthentic and real. Those are qualities Jennifer—a womanwith no interest in being a Hollywood clone—possesses inabundance, along with her candor, humor, and honesty. Herrise to fame might have the ring of a fairy tale about it, butthe truth is, her brand of fearless talent was never going torequire a magic wand to take her to the very top. 