<MAGZ.VOGP.September.2015.0138>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< ----- Beauty --- >FitnessTheBottom LineWeary of looking backin anger, Marcia DeSanctisembarks on a dedicatedregimen in pursuit ofhindquarterly perfection.RUMPUS RAISEDCYCLING AND YOGA CAN HELP,BUT MUSCLE BUILDING REQUIRESRESISTANCE TRAINING. PHOTOGRAPHEDBY IRVING PENN FOR VOGUE, 1994.Iam lying facedown on my bedroom carpet, legsbent with toes wedged against the wall, and StuartMcGill, Ph.D., is coaching me over the phonefrom Ontario, Canada.“Pretend you have a $100 bill in your glutealcrease,” he says. His voice is clinical butreassuring.“My what?” I ask.He translates into the vernacular. (<Yes, you’veguessed correctly><SENT>.) I have enlisted McGill, whose life’s workincludes the study of the muscles of the derrière, to elucidatethe less obvious advantages of a shapely, fit behind. In additionto guiding me through rear-improving floor moves likehip bridges and the clamshell, he gives me some astoundingnews: <I thought my brain was forgetting things?><SENT> It turns outI may also have a case of gluteal amnesia. This condition,coined by McGill, describes a loop where pain in the hips andback causes the butt muscles to shut off, which in turn resultsin more back, hip, and even knee pain. In other words, theprice of a flabby, squashed, and atrophying bottom—mine and anyone else’s who sits most of her waking life—can heralddisaster in the lower body.A few weeks earlier, I’d hired a trainer to help me focus onlifting and rounding my behind. It’s grown slack in midlife,often affixed to the driver’s seat heading to my children’s trackmeets and crew regattas, and rarely to my own workouts. Mymotivation was pure vanity: The rear of my vintage AgnèsB. leather trousers, which once filled out with curves, nowcalled to mind a deflating balloon. I sought the shape thatSpanx gives me, with lean, firm dents in just the right places.Given that I don’t have the stomach for implants or injections,I needed to sweat my way there. And now, thanks to McGill,I understand my discipline includes a mental component I’dnot yet considered. To become iron-hard, he says, we mustfirst train the brain to focus on this most esteemed—butjilted—body part. Hence, the imaginary C-note concealedunder my Odile de Changy briefs. “You have to remember,whenever possible, to squeeze robustly,” McGill says. Solately, whether I’m going upstairs, counting sheep, risingfrom chairs, or watching Veep, “<Contract the glutes!><INTRA>” is my rallying cry, to amplify the results of mydedicated rump regimen.A curvy bum is sexy, but it’s advantageous to have a strongone, too. The glutes are the largest muscle group and the primarystabilizer for the body. They control the hips, the pelvis,the knee, and by extension the back. And so my trainer and Ihave agreed to meet a few times a week at my gym in Litchfield,Connecticut, while I simultaneously sample several otherprograms known to boost the backside. At the start of my allnaturalrump lift, I am advised by Bret Contreras, an authorand expert in all that is gluteal, to take a “<before><INTRA>” picture becauseinches don’t tell the whole story. “You can gain muscle and losefat and your measurement doesn’t change, but you look waybetter,” says the Phoenix-based trainer. So, feet planted on thecold kitchen tiles, I enlist my husband to snap away at my bottom.All but one image goes straight to the electronic trash bin.Artists from ancient Greek sculptors to Edouard Manetand Helmut Newton have long shown the female behind to bea most enduring muse. As anyone who has not been maroonedon a life raft knows, the backside claims the center of the galaxythese days: fashion, fitness—<heaven knows><SENT>, Instagram. Thispreeminence reached its apotheosis at the 2015 Met gala, when Beyoncé, Kim Kardashian West, and Jennifer Lopez in theirrespective Givenchy, Cavalli, and Versace semi-sheer dressesexhibited their jolie rondeur to the gasps (and envy) of the restof humanity. This trifecta of hindquarterly perfection furtherfueled womankind’s ongoing rush to gyms the planet over.“I’ve definitely noticed a huge increase lately in the demandfor a firmer, rounder, perkier butt,” says Lisa Hirsch,owner of the Studio (MDR), three Los Angeles fitness studiosthat are affiliates of the very popular Sebastien Lagreemethod, whose Megaformer workouts are renowned forsculpting a superathletic derrière. A contingent of New YorkCity women who yearn for glorious backsides flock to TheClass by Taryn Toomey. If seeing is truth, the strong, gorgeousbottoms I envied at the downtown space prove thather exhaustive (and exhausting) allover regimen also helps. “Idon’t want to bulk the butt; I want to lift it,” says Toomey, a36-year-old mother of two whose seat could pass for a workof marble. “Almost carve it out.” And then there are the site-specific classes.The high priest of target practice is NewYork’s Leandro Carvalho, a former MerceCunningham dancer whose Brazil Butt Liftmethod is designed to round and reshapeto dazzling effect, most prominently on thefleet of Victoria’s Secret models he has trained. My lackluster,five-decades-old specimen causes him no concern. “There areno hopeless butts, only hopeless people who don’t want to dothe hard work,” Carvalho says as I gasp for breath warmingup on a steeply inclined treadmill at the start of my hour-longsession. “I’ve never seen a behind that couldn’t be fixed.”Brenda Vongova, who works in the Secretary General’soffice at the United Nations, teaches her Bumbum Lift atprivate homes. Many of her moves—with names like “flamingo,”“rainbow,” and “sailboat”—are based on her pastas a synchronized swimmer. Where Carvalho incorporatesfree weights and Cybex machines, Vongova’s program isdesigned for efficiency on the floor of your bedroom. WhenI finish my session, Vongova congratulates me on completing500 lifts in 20 minutes.Still, there are no shortcuts for a determined lazyboneslike me to reverse a flattened seat into something more threedimensional.Pure resistance training is required to build upthe three gluteal muscles: the maximus; the medius, whichframes the hips; and the minimus, which attaches to the leg.My local gym has all the intimidating hardware, and PeterBergamo, my trainer, guides me through exercises and repetitions.I warm up doing squats on the TRX, careful to activateglutes on the way up, rather than my quads, which I have beentold to use on the way down. More squats with a heavy ropeon both shoulders, Volga boatman–style. Bent-leg Jane Fondakicks behind me, <and yes, I feel the burn><SENT>. The “<fire hydrant><INTRA>” iseffective, if unlovely. My favorites are bridges for the opportunityto take five on the floor. I swing the kettlebell up and downwhile flexing the butt muscles and too often, put my weightforward rather than on the back of my heels. “The glutesalways want to cheat,” says Peter. <No, Pete, I do><INTER>. But I resolveto improve: three times a week, for 30 minutes, plus two moreweekly at home, remembering McGill’s advice to contract themuscle group even, for example, while sitting in traffic.All this bottom-centricity becomes a tad monotonousafter several weeks. So I wonder if I might switch it up for,say, a cycling class. “<Does spin work for your glutes?><INTER> 
<Does Pilates?><INTER> <Does yoga?><INTER> <Yes, it all works><INTER>. But nothing works like resistance training,” says Contreras. “To get that 3-D, perky,round look, that’s straight-up muscle building. You need tobe doing exercises that target the area.” His comment makesme curious to know if one could ever overattend to one’s assets.“In 28 years of training, I’ve never heard a woman say,‘<My butt is too round and muscular><SENT>,’ ” he says with a laugh.I’m a long way from that, but this new deliberate focus,both physical and mental, has forced an absolute shift in myapproach. It’s astounding how lazily I used to walk, standin line at the market, or climb the stairs—on my toes ratherthan my heels—and how simple it is to shift my weight backso I can feel the glutes flex. More remarkable, though, is mybackside. I can’t overstate this: The butt is incredibly, eminentlytransformable. The experts told me, and I am proof: Ifyou work it, it will grow. Two months into my experiment, thephotos are beginning to show definition where there used tobe flesh. My husband/photographer has noticed, my trainer isproud, and I’m a little stunned. More than that, my glutes aredoing the job they were built to do—hold me up and fill outthe back of my favorite leather trousers. _