< MAGZ.VOGP.NOVEMBER.2015.0016>< https://archive.vogue.com/>< ----------- Beauty -------- >PhenomViolet Femme With a newalbum—and anew hair colorto match—Grimes is setto go fromDIY darling topop sensation.Claire Boucher—more commonly known byher experimental-music alter ego, Grimes—has been tinting her dark brunette hair akaleidoscope of colors since she was eleven.“I was Anne of Green Gables in the schoolplay, and my mom let me dye it with Kool-Aid. It was her biggest mistake,” she says,laughing, on a recent September afternoon in Brooklyn.In town from L.A., where she has been logging long studiohours for the last year, the Canadian-born Boucher has apacked schedule ahead of the fall release of Art Angels, her long-awaited fourth album. Featuring eleventracks that she calls more “deliberate” and “confident” thanher Billboard-charting 2012 release, Visions, the record ispoised to transplant Boucher squarely into the mainstream.High-octane, professionally mastered hooks aside,Boucher’s hair—waist-grazing and dark in back, with ashorter bleached fringe up front—has become nearly assignature to the Grimes lore as herpixie-pitched crooning, homemadebeats, and skill as a female producerin the male-dominated world ofhit-makers. The combination hasmade her an unexpected beauty iconwho indulges in both YouTube makeuptutorials and Ronda Rousey fightswhile doling out advice on the perilsof blue-hair maintenance via her heavilytrafficked social-media channels.Today, Boucher’s strands are freshlytipped a shade of icy-pink lilac. “This ismy album color. I’m attempting to keepit for at least six months,” she reveals, herfingertips still stained a shade of grayishpurple. With lithe, unshaven legs, she isarranging and rearranging her feet intothird and fourth position as she talks.Despite having given up dancing whenshe was fourteen because she was just“too alt” for the medium, Boucher admitsthat she’s dipping a toe back in withMary Helen Bowers’s popular Ballet Beautiful DVDs in an attemptto get her body in shape for the physical demands of herupcoming tour, which kicks into high gear this month. She’sgetting her fashion-and-beauty game on point, too.“It’s always been a huge thing for me,” the 27-year-old admitsof cultivating her own look and that of her Grimes character,which is inspired by everything from Alexander Wang’s Balenciaga to a “surrealist military aesthetic” sourced from thevideo game Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain. “I’m aperson who would love to be, like, a stylist or a cosmetologistor a hairdresser,” she insists, detailing a sartorial past fueled by“Goth photo shoots” with friends as well as a deep respect andadmiration for other female musicians. “They engage withpop but don’t capitulate to [it],” she says, giving a shout-outto a No Doubt–era Gwen Stefani andFKA Twigs. Boucher’s current fashionlexicon is informed by a studied backlogof online runway shows and, more recently,a front-row seat at many of them.(She sported a peachy-pink pompadourat Louis Vuitton’s resort presentation inMay; at Dior’s couture show in July, itwas a peroxide-blonde quiff.)There was also her recent turn inAlexander Wang’s Steven Klein–lensedDoSomething campaign. But despiteall the designer love that has yieldeda closet full of choice ready-to-wearpieces, Boucher says that her onstagewardrobe remains primarily athleticinspired,dictated by things she caneasily jump around in and that can justas easily be destroyed. “Most things Ihave have a ten-show life span,” shesays referencing her energetic live performances,which are not conduciveto sequined playsuits, stilettos, or lipstick;they do, however, readily support a smear of blackkohl liner and a darkened brow. This time around, theshow Boucher plans to take on the road will also hinge onFred Astaire–inspired choreography, a Nine Inch Nails–themed lighting design, and, of course, a few go-to tubs ofManic Panic in Electric Amethyst and Mystic Heather fortouch-ups.—CELIA ELLENBERG