< MAGZ.VOGP.NOVEMBER.2015.0011>< https://archive.vogue.com/>< ------- Nostalgia ----- >Casting SpellBewitchedAs a girl in Kansas, MEGAN O’GRADY watchedVanessa Redgrave play her ninth-great-grandmother,an accused Salem witch—a familylegacy that’s haunted her ever since.I was ten when I discovered that I have the blood ofa witch. Enthralled, my mother and I watched the1985 television movie Three Sovereigns for Sarah,which begins with my ninth-great-grandmotherSarah Towne Cloyce—played by Vanessa Redgraveat the height of her powers—confronting a panel ofmagistrates to clear her name and those of her oldersisters, Rebecca Towne Nurse and Mary Towne Esty, who’dbeen hanged for witchcraft in Salem a decade before, in 1692.It was with no small amount of pride that I embracedmy heritage: I may have been the only girl in Kansas whoidentified more with the Wicked Witch of the West thanwith Dorothy. Women who spoke their truth were rare in myexperience. “Pass the barbecue sauce, Meg,” my father joked,cutting me off when I tried to make a case for some politicalissue at dinner. Authority was a man in a suit or clerical robes;women were the makers of church bulletins and fudge—good girls, in short. I was encouraged topursue typing and Spanish, essentialtools for my imagined future inthe corporate sector.In fact I ended up becomingnot a good girl but a skeptical andsecretive one, fond of closets andthe woods and, later, of wanderinginto unfinished homes in ourneighborhood, which was still risingfrom the cornfields. But what Sarahmeant to me at that point was stillpretty remote. By the 1990s, witcheshad lost some of their mojo. Theywere the most anodyne of children’scostumes. They were the threecamisole-wearing sisters on the TVshow Charmed. Sarah’s examplehad to do with being an outlier, oneon whom nothing is lost, but it wasalso bound up with my sense of thedark matter in life. And there were,even in our stucco–and–strip mallsuburb, things that were genuinelyspooky: the neighbor’s doorbellnot to be rung on Halloween; thesilently imploding marriages in myparents’ circle.For me, this unspoken spacewas soon filled by novels, the placeso many children turn to learnthose essentials they’re protectedfrom. I couldn’t help noticing thatit was the bad girls who made theirmark—the Hester Prynnes andLily Barts, fictional witches whoacted on their desires and paiddearly. Years later, after I becamea book critic—finally, my opinionwas sought and heard—I saw alineage of women whose stories challenged the acceptednarrative, many of them long forgotten.All of which made me appreciate Sarah’s story even more:Here in my own family was a seventeenth-century womanwho took on the establishment amid an atmosphere of paranoia,storming out of church after her sister Rebecca wasarrested only to be arrested herself days later. Redgrave neverlets you forget how high the stakes are. When I look at thisIrving Penn portrait of her taken that same year, I see not amovie star but a woman: complex, authoritative, irreducible.Four years ago, I moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts, fora fellowship, and began looking for traces of the real Sarah.Driving to Danvers, as Salem Village is now known, I visitedmy ninth-great-aunt Rebecca Nurse’s red farmhouse, wherea cheerful guide lit up when I confessed my ancestry, offeringme literature on historical reenactments.Nearby, in present-day Salem,creaky animatronic Puritans bellowedcondemnations in depressinglykitschy museums; souvenirstores sold witch hats. You couldtake courses in Wicca.That the witch trials, amongthe worst misogynist atrocitiesin America’s history—in which20 people, mostly women, weremurdered, and more than 150others imprisoned—have enduredas a “national campfirestory,” as Stacy Schiff wryly putsit in her in-depth new book, TheWitches: Salem, 1692, has alwaysstruck me as a distancing tactic.Up close, the details—husbandstestifying against wives; childrenagainst their mothers—are nearlytoo ghoulish to believe. Trialsbecame a kind of public theater,with girls shrieking that they’dbeen invisibly pinched, that theysaw little yellow birds. “We musthave our sport!” one of them famouslycried out when challenged, which reminds me ofnothing so much as a long Midwestern winter a friend and Ipassed with a Ouija board, pretending not to be spelling outthe names of boys.In that hysteria, Arthur Miller found a ready parable forCommunist paranoia, casting Abigail Williams—in reality atraumatized eleven-year-old orphan—as Salem’s femme fatalein The Crucible. But to my mind, the real lesson of Salemis how quickly outspoken women can become the sinisterprojection of a community’s psyche. Substitute the w for a band you have a contemporary witch, alive in women like theactivist Sandra Fluke and the mattress-carrying Columbiagraduate Emma Sulkowicz.As my obsession began to exhaust Cambridge’s supply ofPuritan histories—“Watch out for black cats,” my brotherteased—I turned to the Salem archives, handily digitizedby the University of Virginia. Their patchiness is in itselfrevealing: The men who recorded the trials later destroyedmany of their accounts in embarrassment, leaving room forspeculation. <Why were Sarah and her sisters targeted?><SENT>
<How did Sarah alone survive?><SENT> I soon discovered that supernaturalaccusations were rooted in <all-too-worldly><INTRA> concerns. Leadingthe case against the three Towne sisters was 30-year-old AnnPutnam, Sr., who had long been on the losing end of propertydisputes with my family. Ann had also recently lost aninfant daughter and intimated that Sarah and Rebecca hadsomething to do with it.I also realized that Sarah was a far gutsier presence in courtthan her pious, appeasing sisters. “You’re a grievous liar!” sheshouted at one accuser. And here’s where my Catholic motherwould add that Sarah was innocent. 
<No, Sarah wasn’t cavorting with Satan on the parsonage lawn><INTER>. What my mother reallymeans, I suspect, is that Sarah was a good girl. <I’m not so sure><INTER>. She’d beenaround the block a few times. Sheran a tavern with her first husband(my ninth-great-grandfather), EdmundBridges, a colorful fellowwhose many brushes with the lawincluded being caught wearing aperiwig. After he died, leaving Sarahdestitute with five children, shemarried Peter Cloyce, a widower.By 44, her age when the accusationsbroke out, she had improvisedher way through a rathermessy life.One afternoon thatspring, my Germanboyfriend, Thorsten,and I drove out toFramingham, justwest of Boston, where Sarah andPeter fled in early 1693, after sheescaped from jail. Changing theirname to Clayes, they spent thewinter in hiding. By that time, thehysteria was subsiding. In a tellingreversal, a magistrate in Sarah’s case gave her land for a house.And there it was, on Salem End Road: a white clapboard ruin,proof of one daughter-of-history’s unlikely survival.<Do you write your own story><SENT>, 
<or do you allow others to write it for you?><SENT> This, finally, was Sarah’s legacy, one thattook on unexpected resonance as Thorsten and I struggledto plot our next steps. I had met him a year and a half beforein Berlin, sitting with friends at a table crowded with candlesand wine bottles. He had large, sad eyes, and when he turnedto talk to me, I wanted to duck under the table, I felt so thoroughlyseen. Later, as I left the party, my hand reached outand touched his arm, startling us both.Something about this man, a filmmaker whose life operatedunder very different rules than my own, cast an undeniablespell. In no time, we were spending every day together—bicyclingaround Berlin, sharing ideas over elaborate dinners. Tosay I was skeptical is an understatement: I had been marriedonce before, passively, in the boiling-a-frog-slowly kind ofway, and love seemed to me as illusive as one of Salem’s littleyellow birds. Besides, what future did we have? We didn’t livein the same country.And yet I jumped in: Boldly, I asked him to come to Massachusetts.It would not be easy. There would be visas tocontend with, careers to realign. I would have to fight for it.But when Thorsten proposed, shortly after that trip to Sarah’shouse, I realized we had already chosen: not one country oranother, but each other. Not long before our wedding—surroundedby German and American friends, under an old treeon the salt marshes of Massachusetts’s North Shore—mymother called with a discovery: that Sarah had marriedEdmund in the same tiny hamlet 354 years before. 
<The last mysteries of the past could remain hidden><SENT>, I thought. It wasthe future we were just beginning to see.