< MAGZ.VOGP.OCTOBER.2015.0002>< https://archive.vogue.com/ >< --------- Nostalgia --------- >Mix and MatchPerfectStrangersHer parents had flawless taste—and an unhappymarriage. True love, ALEXANDRA MARSHALLdecided, would come with a man with whomshe had nothing in common.I’d just returned to Charles de Gaullefrom a visit to my mother’s house inLos Angeles and had been waitingan eternity for my suitcase. When thebaggage-claim belt finally stoppedturning, a grounds-crew personshowed up with the thing in tatters, wrappedaround and around with yellow tape. Aftermuch shrugging on his part and paperworkon mine, I returned to my apartmentin Montmartre to survey the damage. Thestill-unwrapped ceramic chef’s knife I hadbought in L.A. was missing, as was a favoritesundress, boatnecked and full-skirted, thathad served me countless times for drinks withvisiting editors. But I was especially dismayedto see what else was gone: a pair of teak-liddedvintage Danish-modern spice jars, presentedto me by my mother that Christmasmorning in L.A. Where once I had four, I wasnow down to two. I’d grown up with a dozenof them in my mother’s kitchen, and thisyear, after cleaning it out for a remodel, shedivided them—along with teak trivets androsewood plates—among my older brother,my younger sister, and me. We’d openedthem as she reminisced about our late father,about buying the set with him in Copenhagenat the design emporium Den Permanente,back when men wore long sideburns andmy parents were still married and happy.To my brother, sister, and me, these modwood objects were holy relics, dating to agolden age when my parents were just beginningtheir lives together. They’d beena glamorous couple in 1970s West Los Angeles—publicradio–listening Democrats, Mercedes drivers with azebra-skin rug and a Mies coffee table in the living room(which was generally off limits to us). Thanks to my mother’slong blonde hair and fondness for Yves Saint Laurent–styletrapeze dresses, and her well-executed makeover of my fatherfrom serious-minded Harvard law grad into a bespoke-suitedgent, they seemed like the Los Angeles version of that impeccableFrench couple of their era, Betty and François Catroux:a perfect pair with a perfect look.However, all was not quite so impeccable below the surface.She was charming and spoke fluent French; and he was dryand witty, usually the smartest guy in the room. But back inhis 30s and early 40s, he was also unhappy, and if you werehis daughter, he could seem gloomy and condescending. Ifhe wasn’t traveling for business, he was holed up in a homeoffice where we weren’t encouraged to visit. At that time mymother was, by her own account, naive and somewhat immature.She’d hoped simply for a successful husband and awell-appointed home, but slowly became aware that this whole marriage and motherhood arrangement was more chaoticand unpredictable than she’d bargained for. Each came toresent the other for not being the ideal that they’d dreamed of,and they finally divorced when I was eight years old.I don’t remember yelling or door slamming. I remember aglacial atmosphere in the house, casually undermining conversation,and mutual avoidance. Except when it came timeto redecorate, or make pâté de campagne for a dinner party,or invest in some Scottish cashmere. Then the sun came outbetween them—all warm smiles and recognition. It’s not thatmy parents were baseless materialists; they both had strong,albeit differing, spiritual foundations, and plenty of widercultural interests, but they simply didn’t share these thingswith each other. Absent a common temperament or set ofintellectual pursuits, what my parents did share was goodtaste, and when they were expressing it together, they foundsomething about each other to admire.After the divorce, my father embarked on a new career tradingcommodities and eventually moved across the country. Asfor my mother, she built an interior-design business and relocated us to a new, smaller home, a few blocksaway from the one we’d shared with my dad in Cheviot Hills.The new house, with its carefully chosen Brunschwig & Filsbargellos and trade-discounted French antiques, became ashowroom for potential clients, as well as my mother’s office,so it had to look perfect at all times. This wasn’t at all easyfor my mother, who had three preteen children and no dailyhelp. Maintaining control required militaristic discipline onher part, which was no fun for anyone. But she was thrilledthat her taste could support her family, and she identifiedwith it even more proudly than when her most importantaudience was my father. I’d overhear her on the phone frombehind a closed door, talking about Japanese ceramics or someshipment from Vitra that had finally arrived, and her voicecombined the pride of a job well done with an enthusiasm forbeautiful things.With my mother now working full time, I spent a lot of myafter-school hours with her in the halls of the Pacific DesignCenter in West Hollywood, where I would be instructed to sitquietly in the waiting area at Scalamandré and not take toomany of the Jolly Ranchers from the little porcelain dish onthe coffee table. “<Because they aren’t used to having children here><SENT>,” my mother would say, and disappear into a hanginggarden of wallpaper samples.I, meanwhile, was developing a vexed relationship to thewhole idea of good taste, beginning to think that an easy airof mutual appreciation led directly to disappointment andloss. I had seen where it led my parents.In high school, I joined a clique of punk girls withloudly dyed hair, 1940s thrift-store regalia, and DocMartens. My mother hated how we looked, whichwas partly the point. In college I cultivated as eclectica group of friends as I could and pursued men withwhom I had little in common. I felt I was being adventurousand open-minded, but now I can see what I was doing—akind of getaway act, an attempt to step outside the churchof Mies and Marcella Hazan that had been my childhood.<Did I think I would find happiness with the (maybe, possibly)drug dealer who never finished high school or the tough-guynovelist with deeply reactionary politics who was closer inage to my mother than me?><SENT> Years after college, I lost myfather to prostate cancer. Exhausted by that experience, andstill feeling restless and out of step, I decided I simply hadn’tgone far enough. So I chucked a brownstone apartment inCarroll Gardens, Brooklyn, and moved to France. At first itwas just a vacation—supposed to last two months—but theutter unfamiliarity of Paris kept me there, and I found plentyof work as a freelance journalist and bought an apartment. Ihad no shared references with anyone, no shared roots. I wasadrift, which to me meant I was free. It was just what I wanted.I started Internet-dating, and an evening out with each suitorfelt more like a safari than a search for a match. One of myFrench girlfriends, who met several of the three-to-six-monthboyfriends that had become my specialty, told me, “If onlyyou spoke better French, and got where this guy was reallycoming from, you’d realize just how much he’s not for you.”I rambled on like this until my mother had a hysterectomy,and with the thought of her on the operating table, in her 70s, while I was halfway around the world, I couldn’t continue topretend that a life of endless novelty was more satisfying thanone with some semblance of home. I wasn’t ready to moveback to Los Angeles—there wasn’t enough going on thereprofessionally for me to justify it—nevertheless somethingclicked: <It was time to give the familiar its due><SENT>.I can’t say for certain that what happened next was anythingmore than a happy accident, but on Internet-date-with-a-foreigner number 249, I walked into a wine bar inMontmartre—and at the sight of the man I was there tomeet, a million tiny details popped with recognition in myhead. An adolescence spent skateboarding had given him alopey California stride. He was wearing a pair of Carharttjeans and a vintage motorcycle jacket that was the near twinof one I wore constantly my senior year in college.All of this would have once set off sirens in my head: <He’s too familiar><SENT>, 
<he’ll only disappoint you><SENT>. <You’ll feel so normalwith him you’ll get hooked><SENT>, 
<and then he’ll withdraw into whatever his version of the home office is and close the door><SENT>.<You’ll love him, and then one day he’ll be gone><SENT>.But as we started talking the sirens faded, passing intoanother neighborhood. He started ticking off interests, asyou do on first dates, and it was like he had been followingmy obsessions for years: American hip-hop (unusual herein France), Larry McMurtry, graphic conceptual art, biodynamic wine. As we began to see each other more regularly,I began to like the feeling I had with him of having the groundbeneath my feet. No acts of translation needed—though hesometimes needed a little help with my French.I realized just what a turn things had taken when we boughta car in June of last year. He knew he wanted a vintage model,but I think I was the one who suggested a Mercedes. Soon wewere haunting Le Bon Coin, the French version of Craigslist,until we found a 1985 coupe, from the W123 body style. Wewent to test-drive it, and the minute I sat in the driver’s seatit all came back to me. The nubby feel of the steering wheel,how to switch on the windshield wipers, the best way to getthe glove compartment to close without having to slam it.Between my mother and father both, at one time or anotherthey had owned three of these.It was about €500 more than we could afford, andhad a few nicks and scratches, but to both of us, in equalmeasure though for our own different reasons, it could nothave been more beautiful. I gave my mother a call to seeif she had any advice. “Of course you’re going to buy it,”she said. “They last forever.”